Page 0
"A.D. 1308
Fondamenti di Internet
Data Communication Network Basis
Gianluca Reali

Page 1
) Foreword
Communication has always been with us ever since the origin of human society.
Communication has been playing an increasingly important role especially since human
society entered the information era in the 1970s or 1980s.
The communication mentioned in this course refers to the communication implemented
through a data communication network. This course describes the concepts related to
communication and a data communication network, information transfer process,
network devices and their functions, network types, and typical networking. In addition,
this course briefly introduces the concepts related to network engineering and network
engineers.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Objectives
¢ Oncompletion of this course, you will be able to:
Oo Understand the concepts related to communication and a data communication network.
oO Be able to describe the information transfer process.
oO
Differentiate network devices of different types and understand their basic functions.
oO Understand different network types and topology types.
oO Understand the concepts related to network engineering and network engineers.
Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Device Icons
€ —> > >
General General Core switch Aggregation Access Stacked Firewall | General NMS AP
router switch switch switch switches
= @ a
=== H co)
iki <a
General Cluster FTP server Authentication PN user Enterprise Enterprise Business trip
server server network user
Internet Network Network IP phone Mobile
cloud 1 cloud 2 phone
Page 3 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bm
Base
station
El Ed =
~~
Wi-Fi signals
LJ
Laptop

Network communication Data communication network
[=| ) Concept of Network Communication
¢ Communication refers to the information transfer and exchange between people, between people and
things, and between things through a certain medium and behavior.
¢ Network communication refers to communication between terminal devices through a computer network.
e Examples of network communication:
Data
Ci Ci
A. Files are transferred between two computers
(terminals) through a network cable.
Data
L_|k Internet z
C. A computer (terminal) downloads
files through the Internet.
Page 4 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
& Router
cH CH O:Céd
B. Files are transferred among multiple
computers (terminals) through a router.
¢« Examples of network communication:
2 A. Two computers connected with a network cable form the simplest network.
« B.A small network consists of a router (or switch) and multiple computers. In such a
network, files can be freely transferred between every two computers through the router
or switch.
«= C.To download a file from a website, a computer must first access the Internet.
¢ The Internet is the largest computer network in the world. Its predecessor, Advanced
Research Projects Agency Network (ARPAnet), was born in 1969. The wide popularization
and application of the Internet is one of the landmarks of the information age.

) Contents
1. Communication and Networks
2. Network Types and Topology Types
3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers
Page 5 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Network communication Data communication network
[=| ) Information Transfer Process
e Virtual information transfer is similar to real object transfer.
1
 
fal
 
Sf
 
— fl —o
Objects Package Distribution center Sky Distribution center Package Objects
Packet Packe
Data be: Data
[| : & Internet & Ti
all —
Computer Gateway router Internet Gateway router Computer
Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Comparison between express delivery (object transfer) and network communication:
* Objects to be delivered by express delivery:
a The application generates the information (or data) to be delivered.
¢ The objects are packaged and attached with a delivery form containing the name and address
of the consignee.
« The application packs the data into the original "data payload", and adds the "header"
and "tail" to form a packet. The important information in the packet is the address
information of the receiver, that is, the "destination address".
a The process of adding some new information segments to an information unit to form a
new information unit is called encapsulation.
« The package is sent to the distribution center, where packages are sorted based on the
destination addresses and the packages destined for the same city are placed on the same
plane.
= The packet reaches the gateway through the network cable. After receiving the packet,
the gateway decapsulates the packet, reads the destination address, and then re-
encapsulates the packet. Then, the gateway sends the packet to a router based on the
destination address. After being transmitted through the gateway and router, the packet
leaves the local network and enters the Internet for transmission.
= The network cable functions similarly as the highway. The network cable is the medium
for information transfer.
Upon arrival at the destination airport, packages are taken out for sorting, and those destined
for the same district are sent to the same distribution center.

Network communication Data communication network
Packet
Ga) ) Common Terms
Data payload Information conveyed
Packet Data unit switched and transmitted on the network
Header Information segment added before the data payload
Tail Information segment added after the data payload
Encapsulation Process of adding a header and a tail to a data payload to form a new packet
Decapsulation Process of removing the header and tail from a packet to obtain the data payload
Gateway Network device that provides functions such as protocol conversion, route selection,
and data exchange
Router Network device that selects a forwarding path for packets
Terminal device End device of a data communication system, used as a sender or receiver of data
Page 7 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Data payload: It can be considered as the information to be transmitted. However, in a
hierarchical communication process, the data unit (packet) transmitted from the upper layer to
the lower layer can be called the data payload of the lower layer.
« Packet: a data unit that is exchanged and transmitted on a network. It is in the format of
header+data payload+tail. During transmission, the format and content of packets may
change.
¢ Header: The information segment added before the data payload during packet assembly to
facilitate information transmission is called the packet header.
¢ Tail: The information segment added after the payload to facilitate information transmission is
called the tail of a packet. Note that many packets do not have tails.
¢ Encapsulation: A technology used by layered protocols. When the lower-layer protocol
receives a message from the upper-layer protocol, the message is added to the data part of
the lower-layer frame.
¢ Decapsulation: It is the reverse process of encapsulation. That is, the header and tail of a
packet are removed to obtain the data payload.
* Gateway: A gateway is a network device that provides functions such as protocol conversion,
route selection, and data exchange when networks using different architectures or protocols
communicate with each other. A gateway is a term that is named based on its deployment
location and functionality, rather than a specific device type.
¢ Router: a network device that selects a transmission path for a packet.
« Terminal device: It is the end device of the data communication system. As the data sender or
receiver, the terminal device provides the necessary functions required by the user access
protocol operations. The terminal device may be a computer, server, VoIP, or mobile phone.

Page 8
Data communication network:
Communication network that
consists of routers, switches,
firewalls, access controllers (ACs),
access points (APs), PCs, network
printers, and servers
Function:
To implement data communication
Network communication Data communication network
Ga) ) Concept of the Data Communication Network
Core equipment room
Logsystem j= [RR WR | RR one eeee eee ceeeeeneeed
Controller
NMS
Application server
Office area 3
Office area 2
Office area 1
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Network communication Data communication network
[=] ) Switches
e Switch: a device closest to end users, used to access the network and switch data frames
o Network access of terminals (such as PCs and servers)
o Layer 2 switching
Ci
Switch
_ |_
CIs CIs
Broadcast domain
Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Switches:
«2 Onacampus network, a switch is the device closest to end users and is used to
connect terminals to the campus network. Switches at the access layer are usually
Layer 2 switches and are also called Ethernet switches. Layer 2 refers to the data link
layer of the TCP/IP reference model.
a The Ethernet switch can implement the following functions: data frame switching,
access of end user devices, basic access security functions, and Layer 2 link
redundancy.
= Broadcast domain: A set of nodes that can receive broadcast packets from a node.

Network communication Data communication network
[=] ) Routers
e Router: a network-layer device that forwards data packets on the Internet. Based on the destination
address in a received packet, a router selects a path to send the packet to the next router or destination.
The last router on the path is responsible for sending the packet to the destination host.
o Implementing communication between networks of
the same type or different types | k Chi
. Isolating broadcast domains |
Router
2 Maintaining the routing table and running
routing protocols
o Selecting routes and forwarding IP packets _ _
o Implementing WAN access and network = A = A
address translation Broadcast domainA — Broadcast domain B
4 Connecting Layer 2 networks established through switches
Page 10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Routers:
= Routers work at the network layer of the TCP/IP reference model.
« Routers can implement the following functions: routing table and routing information
maintenance, route discovery and path selection, data forwarding, broadcast domain
isolation, WAN access, network address translation, and specific security functions.

Network communication Data communication network
[=| ) Firewalls
e Firewall: a network security device used to ensure secure communication between two networks. It
monitors, restricts, and modifies data flows passing through it to shield information, structure, and running
status of internal networks from the public network.
Untrust Zone
. Isolating networks of different security levels
. : . Internet
a Implementing access control (using security policies)
between networks of different security levels DMZ
a Implementing user identity authentication = Firewall
o Implementing remote access
© Supporting data encryption and VPN services Trust zone
o Implementing network address translation JS IN
a Implementing other security functions lk Ci
Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
e Firewall:
2 It is located between two networks with different trust levels (for example, between an
intranet and the Internet). It controls the communication between the two networks and
forcibly implements unified security policies to prevent unauthorized access to important
information resources.

Ci LJ LJ] 8 6LJ
Wired terminal Wireless terminal Wireless Wireless
Network communication Data communication network
ry) ) Wireless devices
Internet Internet
oe
Fit AP
i
= =
wy ~~
(
WLAN (Wi-Fi)
terminal terminal
Page 12 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Inabroad sense, WLAN is a network that uses radio waves, laser, and infrared signals to
replace some or all transmission media in a wired LAN. Common Wi-Fi is a WLAN technology
based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards.
¢ Ona WLAN, common devices include fat APs, fit APs, and ACs.
2 AP:
Generally, it supports the fat AP, fit AP, and cloud-based management modes.
You can flexibly switch between these modes based on network planning
requirements.
Fat AP: It is applicable to homes. It works independently and needs to be
configured separately. It has simple functions and low costs.
Fit AP: It applies to medium- and large-sized enterprises. It needs to work with the
AC and is managed and configured by the AC.
Cloud-based management: It applies to small- and medium-sized enterprises. It
needs to work with the cloud-based management platform for unified management
and configuration. It provides various functions and supports plug-and-play.
It is generally deployed at the aggregation layer of the entire network to provide
high-speed, secure, and reliable WLAN services.
The AC provides wireless data control services featuring large capacity, high
performance, high reliability, easy installation, and easy maintenance. It features
flexible networking and energy saving.

) Contents
1. Communication and Networks
2. Network Types and Topology Types
3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers
Page 13 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Network Types Network Topologies
a ) LAN, MAN, and WAN
e Based on the geographical coverage, networks can be classified into local area networks (LANs),
metropolitan area networks (MANs), and wide area networks (WANs).
a LAN
=" ALAN is a network that consists of computers, servers, and network devices in a geographic area. The coverage of a LAN is
generally within several thousand square meters.
= Typical LANs include a company's office network, a cyber bar network, a home network.
ao MAN
= _AMAN is acomputer communication network established within a city.
= Typical MANs include broadband MANs, education MANs, and municipal or provincial e-government private lines.
a WAN
= AWAN generally covers a large geographical area ranging from tens of square kilometers to thousands of square kilometers. It
can connect networks of multiple cities or even networks of countries (as an international large-scale network) and provide long-
distance communication.
= The Internet is a typical WAN.
Page 14 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Based on the geographical coverage, networks can be classified into LANs, WANs, and
MANs.
« LAN:
« Basic characteristics:
= AnLAN generally covers an area of a few square kilometers.
« The main function is to connect several terminals that are close to each other
(within a family, within one or more buildings, within a campus, for example).
= Technologies used: Ethernet and Wi-Fi.
« MAN:
s Basic characteristics:
= A MAN is a large-sized LAN, which requires high costs but can provide a higher
transmission rate. It improves the transmission media in LANs and expands the
access scope of LANs (able to cover a university campus or city).
» The main function is to connect hosts, databases, and LANs at different locations
in the same city.
= The functions of a MAN are similar to those of a WAN except for implementation
modes and performance.
«= Technologies used: such as Ethernet (10 Gbit/s or 100 Gbit/s) and WiMAX.
* WAN:
«a Basic characteristics:

Network Types Network Topologies
@) ) LAN, MAN, and WAN in the Education Industry
pe county Level
"ay "ay
Internet
MAN core of the
district-
level/county-
level education
MAN core of the
provincial
education bureau
MAN core of the
municipal
education bureau
middle school
LAN of a college LAN of a college LAN of a college
or university or university or university
Page 15 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Network Types Network Topologies
[=| ) Network Topologies
e A network topology is a structured layout presented using transmission media (such as twisted pairs and
optical fibers) to interconnect various devices (such as computer terminals, routers, and switches).
The network topology is used
to describe the physical or
logical structure of a network
in the network engineering
field, and is a very important
network concept.
Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Network topology drawing:
a tis very important to master professional network topology drawing skills, which
requires a lot of practice.
« Visio and Power Point are two common tools for drawing network topologies.

Network Types Network Topologies
[=| ) Network Topology Types
¢ Network topologies are classified into star, bus, ring, tree, full-mesh, and partial-mesh network
topologies.
ofc po
Star network topology Bus network topology Ring network topology KA
“e o & ch Combined network topology
Tree network Full-mesh network Partial-mesh network
topology topology topology
Page 17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Star network topology:
a All nodes are connected through a central node.
« Advantages: New nodes can be easily added to the network. Communication data must
be forwarded by the central node, which facilitates network monitoring.
« Disadvantages: Faults on the central node affect the communication of the entire
network.
* Bus network topology:
2 All nodes are connected through a bus (coaxial cable for example).
« Advantages: The installation is simple and cable resources are saved. Generally, the
failure of a node does not affect the communication of the entire network.
« Disadvantages: A bus fault affects the communication of the entire network. The
information sent by a node can be received by all other nodes, resulting in low security.
« Ring network topology:
2 All nodes are connected to form a closed ring.
« Advantages: Cables resources are saved.
« Disadvantages: It is difficult to add new nodes. The original ring must be interrupted
before new nodes are inserted to form a new ring.

) Contents
1. Communication and Networks
2. Network Types and Topology Types
3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers
Page 18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

[=] ) Network Engineering
¢ Network engineering
ao Network engineering refers to planning and designing feasible solutions based on network application requirements and computer
network system standards, specifications, and technologies under the guidance of information system engineering methods and
complete organizations, as well as integrating computer network hardware devices, software, and technologies to form a cost-
effective network system that meets user requirements.
¢ Technical modules covered by network engineering: Applicat
pplication
Wireless Routing Switching
Equipment Media
room=<
Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Network engineering covers a series of activities around the network, including network
planning, design, implementation, commissioning, and troubleshooting.
« The knowledge field of network engineering design is very wide, in which routing and
switching are the basis of the computer network.

[=] ) Network Engineer
e¢ Network engineer
o
Network engineers are technology professionals who master professional network technologies, have professional skills,
professionalism, and project implementation experience in the network engineering field, and are able to fully communicate with
customers or other project stakeholders onsite. In addition, they can develop implementation solutions and project plans (recognized
by project stakeholders) based on customer requirements and environment factors, fully mobilize resources of all parties to ensure
timely and high-quality project implementation, and provide training for stakeholders and deliver engineering documents after the
project is implemented.
¢ Comprehensive capability models for network engineers:
Process specification Business etiquette
Industry knowledge Values
Engineering knowledge Service awareness
Product knowledge Information collection
Technical knowledge Learning competency
Team collaboration
Business management
Presentation capability
Problem solving
Communication
capability
Professional knowledge Basic qualification Professional skills
Page 20 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Network Engineers’ Technology
Development Path
Overall capabilities Solution design, network planning, implementation,
troubleshooting, and optimization
=
SC 6 Packet and
o5 underlying Underlying working mechanism of protocols and packet details
rs} e mechanisms
=
xc) 2 Protocol Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) connection establishment process
° 3 mechanisms Detailed working process of the Spanning Tree Protocol (STP)
ih
©
§ 2
Ec . .
o How to perform, verify, and query OSPF configurations
Es
©
LL
Routing and switching
Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: eg Wha” 7; - wt; >; i " x CRALE C/ * -; soperne em Pe... a ee > < ee; Wie S 4) / > atcew kg >.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: sae ee ae eh: ays 6) ~~ A.B. 1308 es yy Ae rm 2; SD — <——=; Q M5) 4 UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI; MCCS DI PERUGIA. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: Fondamenti di Internet; Data Communication Network Basis; Page 0 Gianluca Reali. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: ) Foreword; ¢ Communication has always been with us ever since the origin of human society.; Communication has been playing an increasingly important role especially since human. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: society entered the information era in the 1970s or 1980s.; ¢ The communication mentioned in this course refers to the communication implemented; through a data communication network. This course describes the concepts related to; communication and a data communication network, information transfer process,; network devices and their fliinctione network tyvnes and tvnical networking In addition. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: this course briefly introduces the concepts related to network engineering and network; engineers.; Page 1 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: or ) Objectives; ¢ Oncompletion of this course, you will be able to:; o Understand the concepts related to communication and a data communication network.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: © Be able to describe the information transfer process.; . Differentiate network devices of different types and understand their basic functions.; o Understand different network types and topology types.; o Understand the concepts related to network engineering and network engineers.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: Device Icons; eS ie Ce 2S f=) fe) SS Fa oO) &. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: =o Saxe dl Ea bel Ee EEE dl — me; General General Core switch Aggregation Access Stacked Firewall General NUS AP Base; router switch switch switch switches station; E ig E —] On = “an Estcrcrica te; General Cluster FTP server Authentication PN user Enterprise Enterprise Business trip AC Wi-Fi signals; server server network user. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: @& @® >) &aAGuodt; Internet Network Network IP phone PC Pad Mobile Laptop; cloud 1 cloud 2 phone; Page 3 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: Data communication network; Concept of Network Communication; ¢ Communication refers to the information transfer and exchange between people, between people and; things, and between things through a certain medium and behavior.; e Network communication refers to communication between terminal devices through a computer network.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: e Examples of network communication:; Data; Ik _—_—_—_ _]k & Router; A. Files are transferred between two computers Zp; (terminals) through a network cable. Data; — | ee —_ |. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: Data Li Li i Lk; —<$<$<$£§; Lik Int t B. Files are transferred among multiple; i nterne computers (terminals) through a router.; C. A computer (terminal) downloads; files through the Internet.; Page 4 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: Contents; 1. Communication and Networks; 2. Network Types and Topology Types. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: 3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: Page 5 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: Information Transfer Process; ¢ Virtual information transfer is similar to real object transfer.; OEE. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: NY +; ¢— —frel —>(— fel—_J—o; Objects Package Distribution center Sky Distribution center Package Objects; Packet Packe; | — — —. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: U Vata U U; Eos = Lees ee; : Internet |; lll =; Computer Gateway router Internet Gateway router Computer; Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: Data communication network; Common Terms oacket; Data naviload Information conveved. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: Packet Data unit switched and transmitted on the network; Header Information segment added before the data payload; Tail Information segment added after the data payload; Encapsulation Process of adding a header and a tail to a data payload to form a new packet; Decapsulation Process of removing the header and tail from a packet to obtain the data payload; Anteras, Network device that provides functions such as protocol conversion, route selection,. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: oad and data exchange; Router Network device that selects a forwarding path for packets; Terminal device End device of a data communication system, used as a sender or receiver of data; Page 7 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: Concept of the Data Communication Network; Internet; * Data communication network: core equiomentroom STR / \. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: Communication network that Controller ae 7B” 7=?; ; ; NMS ¥<; consists of routers, switches, Application server El an ~~; firewalls, access controllers (ACs), < — < d,; access points (APs), PCs, network —<; * Function: AN" N"4 Na” Na" Na" Na; a6 a’s fa as as fas an. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: To implement data communication Se ee; Office area 1 Office area 2 Office area 3; Page 8 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: ¢ Switch: a device closest to end users, used to access the network and switch data frames; o Network access of terminals (such as PCs and servers). Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: o Layer 2 switching; Switch —_. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: Ci Ci; Broadcast domain; Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: Network communication; e Router: a network-layer device that forwards data packets on the Internet. Based on the destination; address in a received packet, a router selects a path to send the packet to the next router or destination.; oe [ee es Lene: S| San fe ae a Hy ee ee eee tn: f en! ee Se ee 2 ee ee fener fc: fe ie. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: THIS TAOt PUULOT VIE LIS PALIT lo PO OVUTISINICG TUT SULIT LI PAYING LY LIS UC OLITIALIU TT Trot.; a Implementing communication between networks of; the same type or different types Ci Ci; a Isolating broadcast domains; Router; a Maintaining the routing table and running >]; routing protocols | |. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: a Selecting routes and forwarding IP packets 5 5; a Implementing WAN access and network = =; address translation Broadcast domain A Broadcast domain B; a Connecting Layer 2 networks established through switches; Page 10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: BY Network communication; e Firewall: a network security device used to ensure secure communication between two networks. It; monitors, restricts, and modifies data flows passing through it to shield information, structure, and running; a eT EN ase Se, Te ee) ee eT ee: | Sees Sy Pen ae ey. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: VLALUS VETILOTTIGL TIOLVVY UI TET Ie MUNITY TIOLVV UTI. U t t; ntrust zone; a Isolating networks of different security levels; : : : a Internet; a Implementing access control (using security policies); between networks of different security levels DMz; a Implementing user identity authentication = Firewall; a Implementing remote access |. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: = Supporting data encryption and VPN services Trust zone; = Implementing network address translation So IN; 5 Implementing other security functions Ci Ci; Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: Wireless devices. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: TWMernet TWernnet; A; c; | e e e e; —_ —_ — —_; ~~”, WLAN (Wi-Fi) ~~, ~~, ~~,. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: Chk | | LJ; Wired terminal Wireless terminal Wireless Wireless; terminal terminal; Page 12 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: Contents; 1. Communication and Networks; 2. Network Types and Topology Types. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: 3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: Page 13 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: Network Topologies; LAN, MAN, and WAN; e Based on the geographical coverage, networks can be classified into local area networks (LANs),; metropolitan area networks (MANs), and wide area networks (WANs).; rf TARI. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: eR Te; = ALAN is a network that consists of computers, servers, and network devices in a geographic area. The coverage of a LAN is; generally within several thousand square meters.; = Typical LANs include a company's office network, a cyber bar network, a home network.; a MAN; = AMAN is a computer communication network established within a city.; = Typical MANs include broadband MANs, education MANs, and municipal or provincial e-government private lines.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: ao WAN; = AWAN generally covers a large geographical area ranging from tens of square kilometers to thousands of square kilometers. It; can connect networks of multiple cities or even networks of countries (as an international large-scale network) and provide long-; distance communication.; = The Internet is a typical WAN.; Page 14 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: Network Topologies; LAN, MAN, and WAN in the Education Industry; ==. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: ip, An, Up. cy, Sp TY; Internet 99 Clay “ea ay, cy; S MAN core of the; MAN core of the MAN core of the district-; & & provincial & & municipal & & level/county-; a. education bureau 2 3 education bureau level education; < << < <> oe - bureau; eco eco eco. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: oa ah oa; LAN of a LAN of a LAN ofa; middle school middle school primary school; LAN of a college LAN of a college LAN of a college; or university or university or university; Page 15 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: Network Types; Network Topologies; e A network topology is a structured layout presented using transmission media (such as twisted pairs and; optical fibers) to interconnect various devices (such as computer terminals, routers, and switches).. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: “Sey “Sey; z=” 7=”; =i =i The network topology is used; A to describe the physical or; ) logical structure of a network; ar. in the network engineering; field, and is a very important; network concept.; 4. 9 (9.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: Network Types; Network Topology Types; ¢ Network topologies are classified into star, bus, ring, tree, full-mesh, and partial-mesh network; topologies.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: Star network topology Bus network topology Ring network topology KA. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: a4 ; os Be? ( c ) Combined network topology; Tree network Full-mesh network Partial-mesh network; topology topology topology; Page 17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: Contents; 1. Communication and Networks; 2. Network Types and Topology Types. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: 3. Network Engineering and Network Engineers. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: Page 18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: ¢ Network engineering; o Network engineering refers to planning and designing feasible solutions based on network application requirements and computer; network system standards, specifications, and technologies under the guidance of information system engineering methods and. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: complete organizations, as well as integrating computer network hardware devices, software, and technologies to form a cost-; effective network system that meets user requirements.; ¢ Technical modules covered by network engineering:; Application; Storage Security Calculation; Wireless Routing Switching. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: Equipment Media; room; Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: ¢ Network engineer; o Network engineers are technology professionals who master professional network technologies, have professional skills,; professionalism, and project implementation experience in the network engineering field, and are able to fully communicate with. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: customers or other project stakeholders onsite. In addition, they can develop implementation solutions and project plans (recognized; by project stakeholders) based on customer requirements and environment factors, fully mobilize resources of all parties to ensure; timely and high-quality project implementation, and provide training for stakeholders and deliver engineering documents after the; project is implemented.; * Comprehensive capability models for network engineers:; Process specification Business etiquette Team collaboration; Indiicetns bnnudlandag Vlalhiac Rircinace mananamant. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: cc laciaeialame aetna Scie laaiaataalare- jail —— ie ~ pas; Engineering knowledge Service awareness Presentation capability; Product knowledge Information collection Problem solving; Technical knowledge Learning competency lla; Page 20 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: Network Engineers’ Technology; Development Path. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: ey HOUMIESSTUUUTIY, AIIM OVUM LAUT; =; Bo Packet and; ° fy underlying Underlying working mechanism of protocols and packet details; 5 £ mechanisms; E; £ 2 Protocol Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) connection establishment process; ° - mechanisms Detailed working process of the Spanning Tree Protocol (STP); i; is]; ga; Es . .; = 2 How How to perform, verify, and query OSPF configurations. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: oO ———; i; WL; Routing and switching; Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)