Page 0
A.D. 1308
Fondamenti di Internet
WLAN Overview
Prof. Gianluca Reali

Page 1
) Foreword
Wired LANs are expensive and lack mobility. The increasing demand for portability and
mobility requires wireless local area network (WLAN) technologies.
WLAN is now the most cost-efficient and convenient network access mode.
This course introduces the development of WLAN in different phases, concepts related
to WLAN technologies, implementation and basic configurations of common WLAN
networking architectures, and WLAN development trends.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Objectives
¢ Oncompletion of this course, you will be able to:
es Understand basic concepts of WLAN and the history of the 802.11 protocol family.
° Learn about different WLAN devices.
2 Distinguish between different WLAN networking architectures.
s Understand the WLAN working process.
s Complete basic WLAN configurations.
Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Contents
WLAN Overview
Basic Concepts of WLAN
WLAN Fundamentals
WLAN Configuration Implementation
Next-Generation WLAN Solutions
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

[= ) Introduction to WLAN
¢ Awireless local area network (WLAN) is constructed using wireless technologies. It uses high-frequency (2.4 GHz or 5
GHz) signals such as radio waves, lasers, and infrared rays to replace the traditional media used for transmission on a
wired LAN.
¢ WLAN technology allows users to easily access a wireless network and move around within the coverage of the wireless
network.
Wireless (yp) BEES
Point
Network Radio
signals
Switch i |
EY
Wired
Network
G
lw
Page 4 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Awireless local area network (WLAN) is constructed using wireless technologies.
2 Wireless technologies mentioned here include not only Wi-Fi, but also infrared,
Bluetooth, and ZigBee.
2 WLAN technology allows users to easily access a wireless network and move around
within the coverage of the wireless network.
« Wireless networks can be classified into WPAN, WLAN, WMAN, and WWAN based on the
application scope.
« Wireless personal area network (WPAN): Bluetooth, ZigBee, NFC, HomeRF, and UWB
technologies are commonly used.
« Wireless local area network (WLAN): The commonly used technology is Wi-Fi. WPAN-
related technologies may also be used in WLANs.
« Wireless metropolitan area network (WMAN): Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave
Access (WiMAX) is commonly used.
« Wireless wide area network (WWAN): GSM, CDMA, WCDMA, TD-SCDMA, LTE, and
5G technologies are commonly used.
¢« Advantages of WLAN:
a High network mobility: WLANs are easily connected, and are not limited by cable and
port positions. This makes WLANs most suitable for scenarios where users are often
moving, such as in office buildings, airport halls, resorts, hotels, stadiums, and cafes.
2 Flexible network deployment: WLANs provide wireless network coverage in places
where cables are difficult to deploy, such as subways and highways. WLANs reduce the
number of required cables, offer low-cost, simplify deployment, and have high scalability.

[=| ) IEEE 802.11. WLAN and Wi-Fi
e |EEE 802.11 suites are standards for WLANs which are definded WLAN
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (IEEE).
¢ Wi-Fi Alliance was formed by a group of major manufacturers IEEE 802.3
and the logo "Wi-Fi" was created. The Wi-Fi standards are
IEEE 802.11 Standards and Wi-Fi Generations
Frequency 2.4GHz 2.4GHz 2.4GHz, 5GHz 2.4GHz & 5GHz 5GHz 5GHz 2.4GHz & 5GHz
an
Throughput 2Mbit/s 11Mbit/s 54Mbit/s 300Mbit/s 1300Mbit/s 6.9Gbit/s 9.6Gbit/s
Standard | sees 802.11b 802.11a, 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac wave 802.11ac wave2 802.11ax
WiFi WiFI1 = WiFI2 WEIS WHA WiFi 5 wire |
Released In 1997 1999 2003 2009 2013 2015 2018
Page 5 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢« IEEE 802.11 standards are located on the lower two layers of the equivalent TCP/IP model.
2 Data link layer: provides channel access, addressing, data frame check, error detection,
and security mechanisms.
2 Physical layer: transmits bit streams over an air interface, for example, specifying the
frequency band.
« Whencreated in 1999, the Wi-Fi Alliance was called the Wireless Ethernet Compatibility
Alliance (WECA) at that time. In October 2002, the WECA was renamed Wi-Fi Alliance.
« The first version of IEEE 802.11 was released in 1997. Since then, more IEEE 802.1 1-based
supplementary standards have been gradually defined. The most well-known standards that
affect the evolution of Wi-Fi are 802.11b, 802.11a, 802.119, 802.11n, and 802.1 1ac.
« When the IEEE 802.11ax standard is released, the Wi-Fi Alliance renames the new Wi-Fi
specification to Wi-Fi 6, the mainstream IEEE 802.11ac to Wi-Fi 5, and IEEE 802.11n to Wi-Fi
4. The same naming convention applies to other generations.

Ga) ) Wi-Fi Development Trends in Office Scenarios
Early 1990s Late 1990s Today
Mobile 1.0 Mobile 2.0 Mobile 3.0
—
=> 4K
] ( Wi-Fi )
VR/AR ces
ce All-wireless era
= BYOD —_
eee Diversified terminals:
: « Refined online service
: * 802 ttax/ad
=—s Primary mobile office . AK vidan
Mobile phone, tablet, and Ultrabook: VRI4K video
Laptop: « Video, voice, and data services
* Voice and data services « Alarge number of real-time services
* 802.11b/a/g * 802.11n -> 802.11ac
Desktop computer:
* Data service WUE SE HERES as a Wired and wireless integration All-wireless office, wireless-centric
supplement to wired networks
Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Phase 1: Initial Mobile Office Era — Wireless Networks as a Supplement to Wired Networks
a WaveLAN technology is considered as the prototype of enterprise WLAN. Early Wi-Fi
technologies were mainly applied to loT devices such as wireless cash registers.
However, with the release of 802.11a/b/g standards, wireless connections have become
increasingly advantageous. Enterprises and consumers are beginning to realize the
potential of Wi-Fi technologies, and wireless hotspots are found to be deployed in
cafeterias, airports, and hotels.
« The name Wi-Fi was also created during this period. It is the trademark of the Wi-Fi
Alliance. The original goal of the alliance was to promote the formulation of the 802.11b
standard as well as the compatibility certification of Wi-Fi products worldwide. With the
evolution of standards and the popularization of standard-compliant products, people
tend to equate Wi-Fi with the 802.11 standard.
« The 802.11 standard is one of many WLAN technologies, and yet it has become a
mainstream standard in the industry. When a WLAN is mentioned, it usually is a WLAN
using the Wi-Fi technology.
a The first phase of WLAN application eliminated the limitation of wired access, with the
goal to enable devices to move around freely within a certain range. That is, WLAN
extends wired networks with the utilization of wireless networks. In this phase, WLANs
do not have specific requirements on security, capacity, and roaming capabilities. APs
are still single access points used for wireless coverage in single-point networking.
Generally, an AP using a single access point architecture is called a Fat AP.
« Phase 2: Wireless Office Era — Integration of Wired and Wireless Networks
a With the increasing popularity of wireless devices, WLANs have evolved from the
supplement
 
of wired networks to necessities.
a In this phase, a WLAN, as a part of the network, needs to provide network access for

Page 7
) Contents
WLAN Overview
Basic Concepts of WLAN
WLAN Fundamentals
WLAN Configuration Implementation
Next-Generation WLAN Solutions
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Page 8
Wireless Router
Basic Concepts Wired Network Wireless Network
Network
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Huawei WLAN products provide high-speed, secure, and reliable wireless network
connections in various scenarios, such as indoor and outdoor scenarios and home and
enterprise scenarios.
¢ Wireless routers are Fat APs in most cases.
A wireless router converts wired network signals into wireless signals to be received by
devices such as home computers and mobile phones so that they can access the
Internet in wireless mode.
¢ Enterprise WLAN products:
AP
AC
The AP can switch flexibly among the Fat, Fit, and cloud modes based on the
network plan.
Fat AP: applies to home WLANs. A Fat AP works independently and requires
separate configurations. It provides only simple functions and Is cost-effective. The
Fat AP independently implements functions such as user access, authentication,
data security, service forwarding, and QoS.
Fit AP: applies to medium- and large-sized enterprises. Fit APs are managed and
configured by the AC in a unified manner, provide various functions, and have
high requirements on network maintenance personnel's skills. Fit APS must work
with an AC for user access, AP going-online, authentication, routing, AP
management, security, and QoS.
Cloud AP: applies to small- and medium-sized enterprises. Cloud APs are
managed and configured by a cloud management platform in a unified manner,
provide various functions, support plug-and-play, and have low requirements on
network maintenance personnel's skills.
An AC is usually deployed at the aggregation layer of a network to provide high-

Ga) ) Basic WLAN Networking Architecture
Fat AP Architecture AC + Fit AP Architecture
Internet
Internet
<R> Campus
& Campus Egress Gateway
Campus
Wired Network Egress Gateway p
Network
Ethernet Protocols Campus
Network
g G
rs ~Y
“y
J ln
Fat AP (5) (cy) Fit AP
& & & Radio signal & Ys = Radio signal
Wireless Network ~~ ~~ qx Ss ~~ qx
SY
802.11 Protocols 0 i)
Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
2 SY >
0 STA 0 i) | Hl STA
a
« A WLAN involves both wired and wireless sides. On the wired side, APs connect to the
Internet using Ethernet. On the wireless side, STAS communicate with APs using 802.11
standards.
« The wireless side uses the centralized architecture. The original Fat AP architecture evolves
to the AC + Fit AP architecture.
2 FatAP architecture
= This architecture is also called autonomous network architecture because it does
not require a dedicated device for centralized control. It can implement functions
such as connecting wireless users, encrypting service data, and forwarding
service data packets.
= Applicable scope: home and small-sized enterprises
= Characteristics: A Fat AP works independently and is configured separately. It
provides only simple functions and is cost-effective.
= Disadvantages: The increase in the WLAN coverage area and the number of
access users requires more and more Fat APs. No unified control device is
available for these independently working Fat APs. Therefore, it is difficult to
manage and maintain the Fat APs.
o AC + Fit AP architecture
= In this architecture, an AC is responsible for WLAN access control, forwarding and
statistics collection, AP configuration monitoring, roaming management, AP
network management agent, and security control. A Fit AP encrypts and decrypts
802.11 packets, provides 802.11 physical layer functions, and is managed by an
AC.

Central AP \¢
 
=>)
Central AP |e
 
==)
Ga) ) Agile Distributed Architecture
Hoon fdoad
Room 1
Page 10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Room2 | Room3 Room N
Room 1
Room2 Room3 Room WN
Basic Concepts Wired Network Wireless Network
Architecture Characteristics
¢ The agile distributed architecture divides an AP into a central AP
and remote units (RUs). The central AP can manage multiple
RUs, which provides good coverage and reduces costs. RUs can
be used in the Fat AP, AC + Fit AP, and cloud management
architectures.
¢ Application scope: densely distributed rooms

) Basic Concepts Wired Network Wireless Network
What Is a CAPWAP Tunnel?
Transfer:
Control information * Control And Provisioning of Wireless Access
User data
LJ : z Cc Points (CAPWAP): defines how to manage and
STA Ga ; ampus
fe ew ppt Network configure APs. That is, an AC manages and controls
cA
‘»
AP1 (cy) APs in a centralized manner through CAPWAP tunnels.
CAPWAP Tunnel Functions
SS
SS ¢ Maintains the running status of the AC and APs.
| * Allows the AC to manage APs and deliver service
STA configurations to the APs.
« Allows APs to exchange data sent by STAs with the AC
through CAPWAP tunnels when the tunnel forwarding
mode is used.
Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
To meet the requirements of large-scale networking and unified management
 
of APs on the
network, the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) sets up a CAPWAP Working Group and
formulates the CAPWAP protocol. This protocol defines how an AC manages and configures
APs. That is, CAPWAP tunnels are established between the AC and APs, through which the
AC manages and controls the APs.
CAPWAP is an application-layer protocol based on UDP transmission.
> CAPWAP functions in the transmission of two types of messages:
= Data messages, which encapsulate wireless data frames through the CAPWAP
data tunnel.
= Control messages, which are exchanged for AP management through the
CAPWAP control tunnel.
«2 CAPWAP data and control packets are transmitted on different UDP ports:
= UDP port 5246 for transmitting control packets
= UDP port 5247 for transmitting data packets

[=| ) AP-AC Networking
¢ The AP-AC networking modes are classified into Layer 2 networking and Layer 3 networking.
Layer 2 Networking Layer 3 Networking
* Layer 2 networking: APs are * Layer 3 networking: APs are
A connected to an AC directly or A connected to an AC across a
Cc across a Layer 2 network. Cc Layer 3 network.
* The Layer 2 networking * In the actual networking, an AC
Layer 2 features quick deployment. It is Layer 3 can connect to dozens or even
Network applicable to simple or Network hundreds of APs, which is
temporary networking but not to usually complex. In most cases,
large networking. oo the Layer 3 networking is used
AP1 APn AP1 APn on a large network.
Page 12 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
AP-AC networking: The Layer 2 or Layer 3 networking can be used between the AC and APs.
In the Layer 2 networking, APs can go online in plug-and-play mode through Layer 2
broadcast or DHCP. In the Layer 3 networking, APs cannot directly discover an AC. We need
to deploy DHCP or DNS, or manually specify the AC's IP address.
In the actual networking, an AC may connect to dozens or even hundreds of APs, which is
complex. For example, on an enterprise network, APs can be deployed in offices, meeting
rooms, and guest rooms, and the AC can be deployed in the equipment room. This constructs
a complex Layer 3 network between the AC and APs. Therefore, the Layer 3 networking is
often used on large-scale networks.

Page 13
[= ) AC Connection Mode
e ACs can be connected in in-path or off-path mode.
Off-Path Networking
In-Path Networking
« Inthe in-path networking, the
APs, AC, and core network are
connected in a chain. All data
destined for the core layer
passes through the AC.
* In this networking, the AC also
functions as an aggregation
switch to forward and process
data traffic and management
traffic of APs.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Core
Network
| A
IP
Network
Basic Concepts Wired Network Wireless Network
¢ In the off-path networking, the
AC connects to the network
between APs and the core
network, but does not directly
connect to APs.
¢ In this networking, the AC is
connected to APs in off-path
mode, the service data of APs
reaches the uplink network
without passing through the
AC.
AC connection mode: In in-path mode, the AC is deployed on the traffic forwarding path, and
user traffic passes through the AC. This consumes the AC's forwarding capability. In off-path
mode, traffic does not pass through the AC.
In-path networking:
2 In the in-path networking, the AC must be powerful in throughput and processing
capabilities, or the AC becomes the bandwidth bottleneck.
« This networking has a clear architecture and is easy to deploy.
Off-path networking:
= Most wireless networks are deployed after wired networks are constructed and are not
planned in early stage of network construction. The off-path networking makes it easy to
expand the wireless network. Customers only need to connect an AC to a network
device, for example, an aggregation switch, to manage APs. Therefore, the off-path
networking is used more often.
2 In the off-path networking, the AC only manages APs, and management flows are
encapsulated and transmitted in CAPWAP tunnels. Data flows can be forwarded to the
AC over CAPWAP tunnels, or forwarded to the uplink network by the aggregation switch
and do not pass through the AC.

: - Wireless
EAS Cersens Wired Network
[=| ) Wireless Communications System
e In a wireless communications system, information may be an image, a text, a sound, or the like. The
transmit device first applies source coding to convert information into digital signals that allow for circuit
calculation and processing, and then into radio waves by means of channel coding and modulation.
Channel Yi
Source > Coding -—) Modulation LY (transmission Demodulation > Decoding Sink
media)
a
Transmit device Receive device
Noise source
Wireless Communications System
Page 14 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Coding
2 Source coding is a process of converting raw information into digital signals by using a
coding scheme.
a Channel coding is a technology
 
for correcting and detecting information errors to
improve channel transmission reliability. With wireless transmission that is prone to
noise interference, information arriving at the receive device may be erroneous. Channel
coding is introduced to restore information to the maximum extent on the receive device,
thereby reducing the bit error rate.
¢ Modulation is a process of superimposing digital signals on high-frequency signals generated
by high-frequency oscillation circuits so that the digital signals be converted into radio waves
over antennas and then transmitted.
* Achannel transmits information, and a radio channel is a radio wave in space.
¢ The air interface is used by radio channels. The transmit device and receive device are
connected through the air interfaces and channels. The air interfaces in wireless
communication are invisible and connected over the air.

: - Wireless
EAS CEreEes Wired Network
[=| ) Radio Wave
e A radio wave is an electromagnetic wave whose frequency is between 3 Hz and about 300 GHz. Radio
technology converts sound signals or other signals and transmits them by using radio waves.
e WLAN technology enables transmission of information by radio waves over the air. Currently, the WLAN
uses the following frequency bands:
2.4 GHz frequency band (2.4—2.4835 GHz)
5 GHz frequency band (5.15-5.35 GHz, 5.725-5.85 GHz)
2.4 GHz frequency band 5 GHz frequency band
IEEE 802.11b/g/n/ax IEEE 802. 11a/n/ac/ax
* Radio wave spectrum:
Super low Ultralow Very low Low Intermediate High Very high Ultra high Super high
quency quency quency quency quency frequency frequency
frequency ie * vy * frequency
(ELF) (SLF) (ULF) (VLF) (LF) (IF) (HF) (VHF) (UHF) (SHF) (EHF)
Extremely Extremely
low high
3 30 300 3 30 300 3 30 300 3 30 300 pnftared iS IDle
light, ultraviolet
Y Y Y Y light, and ray
Hz kHz MHz GHz
Page 15 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ ELF (3 Hz to 30 Hz): Used for submarine communication or directly converted into sound
¢ SLF (30 Hz to 300 Hz): Directly converted into sound or used for AC transmission system
(50-60 Hz)
¢ ULF (800 Hz to 3 kHz): Used for communications in mining farms or directly converted into
sound
¢ WVLF (38 kHz to 30 kHz): Directly converted into sound and ultrasound or used for geophysics
¢ LF (80 kHz to 300 kHz): Used for international broadcasting
¢ IF (800 kHz to 3 MHz): Used for amplitude modulation (AM) broadcasting, maritime
communications, and aeronautical communications
¢ HF (3 MHz to 30 MHz): Used for short-wave and civil radios
¢ VHF (30 MHz to 300 MHz): Used for frequency modulation (FM) broadcasting, television
broadcasting, and aeronautical communications
¢ UHF (800 MHz to 3 GHz): Used for television broadcasting, radio telephone communications,
wireless network, and microwave oven
¢ SHF (3 GHz to 30 GHz): Used for wireless network, radar, and artificial satellite
¢ EHF (30 GHz to 300 GHz): Used for radio astronomy, remote sensing, and millimeter wave
scanner
¢ Higher than 300 GHz: Infrared, visible light, ultraviolet light, and ray

) Radio Channel
: - Wireless
Basic CEneees Wired Network
e Achannel transmits information, and a radio channel is a radio wave in space. Given that radio waves are
ubiquitous, the random use of spectrum resources will cause endless interference issues. Therefore, in
addition to defining the usable frequency bands, wireless communication protocols must also accurately
divide the frequency ranges. Each frequency range is a channel.
2.4 GHz Frequency Band
1 3 11. 13
24125 2.422 or 2442. 248, 0 o 47
14
T T 2.437
 
“ieee
 
2.457 T 2.484
tL. LL 1: channel
~y
 
- NO \. 2.412: center frequenc
rae, Vr KS q y
yy yy yyy i iyi 3 1 (GHz)
* The 2.4 GHz frequency band is divided into 14 channels with
overlapping or non-overlapping relationships, each with a
bandwidth of 20 MHz.
* Overlapping channels, such as channels 1 and 2, interfere with each other.
* Non-overlapping channels, such as channels 1 and 6, do not interfere with
each other.
Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
5 GHz Frequency Band
$170
MHz
$330
MHz
$490
MHz
Weather
radar
$710
MHz
$738
MHz
leech gSsegeees SSSSSRARSSS LBbEB
20 m2 AAA OAAAA
40 MHz WV
80 MHz V \ V \ i—1
160 MHz \ \ i :
Example of non- \ \ H
80+80 :
MHz channel . fC
binding : H
* The 5 GHz frequency band has richer spectrum resources. In addition to 20
MHz channels, APs working on the 5 GHz frequency band support 40 MHz,
80 MHz, and higher-bandwidth channels.
* Ona WLAN, the operating status of APs is affected by the radio environment. For example, a
high-power AP can interfere with adjacent APs if they work on overlapping channels.
« In this case, the radio calibration function can be deployed to dynamically adjust channels and
power of APs managed by the same AC to ensure that the APs work at the optimal
performance.

[= ) BSS/SSID/BSSID
e Basic service set (BSS):
e An area covered by an AP.
Discover guest BSS
| ® STAsina BSS can communicate with each other.
e Basic service set identifier (BSSID):
A (5) SSID: guest e An identifier of a WLAN, which is represented by the
Discover guest P BSSID: 00¢0.fc45.24a0 AP's MAC address.
e
Lo] = ¢ Service set identifier (SSID):
© An identifier of a WLAN, which is represented by a
Discover guest string of characters.
LJ e $§SIDs can replace BSSIDs to help users identify
different WLANs.
Page 17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« BSS:
« ABSS, the basic service unit of a WLAN, consists of an AP and multiple STAs. The
BSS is the basic structure of an 802.11 network. Wireless media can be shared, and
therefore packets sent and received in a BSS must carry the BSSID (AP's MAC
address).
« BSSID:
a AP's MAC address on the data link layer.
s STAs can discover and find an AP based on the BSSID.
«2 Each BSS must have a unique BSSID. Therefore, the AP’s MAC address is used to
ensure the uniqueness of the BSSID.
« SSID:
« A unique identifier that identifies a wireless network. When you search for available
wireless networks on your laptop, SSIDs are displayed to identify the available wireless
networks.
2 |f multiple BSSs are deployed in a space, the STA may discover not only one BSSID.
You only need to select a BSSID as required. For easier AP identification, a string of
characters is configured as the AP name. This character string is the SSID.

: - Wireless
EAS CEreEes Wired Network
[=| ) VAP
e In the early stage, APs support only one BSS. If
multiple BSSs are deployed in a space, we must
Discover guest also deploy multiple APs, which increases costs
and internal
| BSS1: VAP1 and occupies channel resources. To resolve this
Bes problem, APs now support creation of multiple
00e0.fc45.24a0 virtual access points (VAPs).
A (5)
Discover guest ;
and internal P ° VAP:
& BSS2: VAP2
L J “=
 
| SSID: internal ° A physical AP can be virtualized into multiple VAPs,
BSSID: . . .
00e0.fc45.24a9 each of which provides the same functions as the
Discover guest :
and internal physical AP.
L J e Each VAP corresponds to one BSS. In this way, one
AP may provide multiple BSSs that can have different
SSIDs specified.
Page 18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« VAP:
« A VAP is a functional entity virtualized on a physical AP. You can create different VAPs
onan AP to provide the wireless access service for different user groups.
¢ The use of VAPs simplifies WLAN deployment, but it does not mean that we need to configure
as many as VAPs. VAPs must be planned based on actual requirements. Simply increasing
the number of VAPs will increase the time for STAs to find SSIDs and make AP configuration
more complex. Additionally, a VAP is not equivalent
 
to a real AP. All VAPs virtualized from a
physical AP share software and hardware resources of the AP, and all users associated with
these VAPs share same channel resources. The capacity of an AP will not change or multiply
with the increasing number of VAPs.

: - Wireless
EAS Cersens Wired Network
=))) ess
e The coverage of a BSS is limited. An extended
ESS service set (ESS) can be used to expand the
as as coverage. When a STA moves from one BSS to
(S) BSSID: (FY) BSSID:
00e0.fc45.24a0 00e0.fc45.3100 another BSS, an ESS ensures that the STA does
mw SS a he ch fthe SSID
— il —= | not sense
 
the change
 
of the ;
LJ SSID: huawei LJ SSID: huawei * ESS:
° Alarger-scale virtual BSS that consists of multiple
BSSs with the same SSID.
Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* ESS:
2 A large-scale virtual BSS consisting of multiple BSSs with the same SSID.
s ASTAcan move and roam within an ESS and considers that it is within the same
WLAN regardless of its location.
¢ WLAN roaming:
2 WLAN roaming allows STAs to move within the coverage areas of APs belonging to the
same ESS with nonstop service transmission.
«= The most obvious advantage of the WLAN is that a STA can move within a WLAN
without physical media restrictions. WLAN roaming allows the STA to move within a
WLAN without service interruption. Multiple APs are located within an ESS. Whena
STA moves from an AP to another, WLAN roaming ensures seamless transition of STA
services between APs.

Page 20
) Contents
WLAN Overview
Basic Concepts of WLAN
WLAN Fundamentals
WLAN Configuration Implementation
Next-Generation WLAN Solutions
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding CETIOELED STAAccess Data Forwarding
ry) ) WLAN Working Process Overview
Network
© AP onboarding )
AnAP obtains an IP address, discovers an AC,
and sets up a connection with the AC.
DHCP Server AC [ @® WLANservice configuration delivery ]
Ei The AC delivers WLAN service configurations to the AP.
[ © STAaccess )
STAs find the SSID transmitted by the AP, connect to
the network, and go online.
AP AP © WLANservice data forwarding
C7 Clg
Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
The WLAN starts to forward service data.
¢ Inthe AC + Fit AP networking architecture, the AC manages APs in a unified manner.
Therefore, all configurations are performed on the AC.

ar eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
Ga) ) WLAN Working Process: Step 1
Campus WLAN Working Process
Network
4) AP onboarding
The AC can manage and control Fit APs in a centralized
manner and deliver services only after they go online. The
DHCP Server AC procedure is as follows:
1. AnAP obtains an IP address.
Ei 2. TheAP discovers the AC and establishes a CAPWAP tunnel
with it.
3. AP access control
4. AP upgrade
5. CAPWAP tunnel maintenance
AP AP (2) WLANservice configuration delivery |
—
 
7-7
(3) STAaccess
CT CI] q (4) WLAN service data forwarding
Page 22 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding ar eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
[=| ) APs Obtain IP Addresses
¢ AnAP can communicate with an AC only after obtaining an IP address.
IP Address Allocation
@ « AnAP can obtain an IP address in either of the following modes:
© Static mode: A user logs in to the AP and configures its IP address.
° DHCP mode: The AP serves as a DHCP client and requests an IP address
from a DHCP server.
© ¢ Typical solutions:
° Deploy a dedicated DHCP server to assign IP addresses to APs.
° Configure the AC to assign IP addresses to APs.
6 e Use a device on the network, such as a core switch, to assign IP addresses to
APs.
ro) IP address allocation
©
Page 23 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Configuration
AP Onboarding Delivery
STAAccess Data Forwarding
ry) ) DHCP IP Address Allocation
ro) IP address allocation
AP DHCP Server
w DHCP Discover (broadcast)
Discover DHCP servers on the network
A)
DHCP Offer (unicast)
Select an available IP address from the
address pool and respond to the AP
*)
DHCP Request (broadcast)
Notify the DHCP server of the IP address selected
DHCP Ack (unicast)
Acknowledge address allocation
6
oO
Page 24 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Configuration sTaAccess Data Forwarding
E>) CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment
¢ The AC manages and controls APs in a centralized manner through
) CAPWAFP tunnels. A
A
WY EJ
Discovery Request
CAPWAP
tunnel establishment + AnAP sends a Discovery Request packet to find an available AC
« APs can discover an AC in either of the following ways:
° Static: AC IP address list preconfigured on the APs <
© 2 Dynamic: DHCP, DNS, and broadcast
Step 2: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment
¢ APs associate with the AC and establish CAPV/AP tunnels
including data tunnels and control
° Data tunnel: transmits service data packets from APs to the AC
for centralized forwarding.
e Control tunnel: transmits control packets between the AC and
APs.
Discovery Response
Page 25 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ CAPWAP tunnels provide the following functions:
« Maintains the running status of the AC and APs.
2 Allows the AC to manage APs and deliver configurations to APs.
« Transmits service data to the AC for centralized forwarding.
* AC discovery phase:
2 Static: An AC IP address list is preconfigured on the APs. When an AP goes online, the
AP unicasts a Discovery Request packet to each AC whose IP address is specified in
the preconfigured AC IP address list. After receiving the Discovery Request packet, the
ACs send Discovery Response packets to the AP. The AP then selects an AC to
establish a CAPWAP tunnel according to the received Discovery Request packets.
2 Dynamic: DHCP, DNS, and broadcast. This course describes DHCP and broadcast
modes.

“@) Step 1: APs Dynamically Discover
 
the AC
of) DHCP Mode (Layer 3 Networking) Broadcast Mode (Layer 2 Networking)
DHCP Server
CAPWAP (a
 
»)} Layer 2 Campus S Layer 3 Campus A
A) tunnel Network : Network ==
establishment
DHCP Discover t
DHCP Offer I
© (option 43) I
¢ | Broadcast query
l
l
DHCP Request
DHCP Ack :
8 (option 43) op)
. A
P
Discovery Request
Discovery Response
Page 26 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* DHCP mode:
2 Obtain the AC IP address through a four-way DHCP handshake process.
= Whenno AC IP address list is preconfigured, the AP starts the dynamic AC auto-
discovery process. The AP obtains an IP address through DHCP and the AC
address list through the Option field in the DHCP packets. (The DHCP server is
configured to carry Option 43 in the DHCP Offer packet, and Option 43 contains
the AC IP address list.)
= First, the AP sends a DHCP Discover packet to the DHCP server in broadcast
mode. When receiving the DHCP Discover packet, the DHCP server encapsulates
the first free IP address and other TCP/IP configuration in a DHCP Offer packet
containing the lease duration, and sends the packet to the AP.
= A DHCP Offer packet can be a unicast or broadcast packet. When the AP
receives DHCP Offer packets from multiple DHCP servers, it selects only one
DHCP Offer packet (usually the first DHCP Offer packet) and broadcasts a DHCP
Request packet to all DHCP servers. Then, the AP sends a DHCP Request
packet to the specified server from which will allocate an IP address.
= Whenthe DHCP server receives the DHCP Request packet, it responds with a
DHCP Ack packet, which contains the IP address for the AP, lease duration,
gateway information, and DNS server IP address. By now, the lease contract
takes effect and the DHCP four-way handshake is completed.
a The AC discovery mechanism allows APs to associate with the AC.
= After obtaining the AC's IP address from the DHCP server, the AP finds available
ACs through the AC discovery mechanism and decides to associate with the
optimal AC and establish CAPWAP tunnels.
= The AP starts the CAPWAP protocol discoverv mechanism and sends unicast or

ar eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
@))) Step 2: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment
CAPWAP tunnel
3s Step 2: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment
* APs associate with the AC and establish CAPVWWAP
CAPWAP DHCP
tunnel establishment Server AC tunnels, including data tunnels and control tunnels.
Ei] ° Data tunnel: transmits service data packets from APs to the
np? AC for centralized forwarding. Datagram Transport Layer
© ope 8 Security (DTLS) encryption can be enabled over the data
» tunnel to ensure security of CAPWAP data packets.
Subsequently, CAPWAP data packets will be encrypted and
decrypted using DTLS.
6 ° Control tunnel: transmits control packets between the AC and
APs. DTLS encryption can be enabled over the control tunnel
cece to ensure security of CAPWAP control packets. Subsequently,
CAPWAP control packets will be encrypted and decrypted
© using DTLS.
Page 27 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding a eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
ry) ) AP Access Control
wy Ea
« After discovering and AC, the AP sends a Join
Request packet to the AC. The AC then Discovery Request
© AP access control determines whether to allow the AP access Discovery Response
sends a Join Response packet to the AP. Join Request
¢« The AC supports three AP authentication modes: Join Response
8 MAC address authentication, SN authentication,
and non-authentication.
Page 28 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ After receiving the Join Request packet from an AP, an AC authenticates the AP. If
authentication is successful, the AC adds the AP.
¢ The AC supports the following AP authentication modes:
2 MAC address authentication
2 SN authentication
= Non-authentication
¢« APs can be added to an AC in the following ways:
2 Manual configuration: Specify the MAC addresses and SNs of APs in offline mode on
the AC in advance. When APs are connected the AC, the AC finds that their MAC
addresses and SNs match the preconfigured ones and establish connections with them.
= Automatic discovery: If the AP authentication mode is set to non-authentication, or the
AP authentication mode is set to MAC or SN authentication and the AP is whitelisted,
the AC automatically discovers connected APs and establish connections with them.
2 Manual confirmation: If the AP authentication mode is set to MAC or SN authentication
and the AP is not imported offline or whitelisted, the AC adds the AP to the list of
unauthorized APs. You can manually confirm the identity of such an AP to bring it
online.

AP Onboarding a eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
Ga) ) AP Upgrade
8
AP Upgrade A A
(2)
« The AP determines whether its system software ( ) Ej
version is the same as that specified on the AC Discovery Request
according to parameters in the received Join
© Response packet. If they are different, the AP
Discovery Response
sends an Image Data Request packet to request Join Request
the software package and then upgrades its Join Response
AP upgrade software version in AC, FTP, or SFTP mode. Image Data Request
(Optional) >
« After the software version is updated, the AP Image Data Response
restarts and repeats steps 1 to 3.
Page 29 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ APs can be upgraded on an AC in the following modes:
« Automatic upgrade: mainly used when APs have not gone online on an AC. In this
mode, we need to configure the automatic upgrade parameters for APs to go online
before configuring AP access. Then the APs are automatically upgraded when they go
online. An online AP will be automatically upgraded after the automatic upgrade
parameters are configured and the AP is restarted in any mode. Compared with the
automatic upgrade mode, the in-service upgrade mode reduces the service interruption
time.
= AC mode: applies when a small number of APs are deployed. APs download the
upgrade file from the AC during the upgrade.
= FTP mode: applies to file transfer without high network security requirements. APs
download the upgrade file from an FTP server during the upgrade. In this mode,
data is transmitted in clear text, which brings security risks.
= SFTP mode: applies to scenarios that require high network security and provides
strict encryption and integrity protection for data transmission. APs download the
upgrade file from an SFTP server during an upgrade.
a In-service upgrade: mainly used when APs are already online on the AC and carry
WLAN services.
« Scheduled upgrade: mainly used when APs are already online on the AC and carry
WLAN services. The scheduled upgrade is usually performed during off-peak hours.

ar eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
CAPWAP Tunnel Maintenance
A
8 Ei
Discovery Request
CAPWAP Tunnel Maintenance Discovery Response
¢ Data tunnel maintenance: Join Request
° The AP and AC exchange Keepalive packets to Join Response
?) detect the data tunnel connectivity. Image Data Request
¢ Control tunnel maintenance:
Image Data Response
e The AP and AC exchange Echo packets to
a Keepalive
8 detect the control tunnel connectivity. > | Data tunnel
Keepalive
Echo Request
CAPWAP ia
tunnel maintenance Echo Response
Control tunnel
Page 30 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Data tunnel maintenance:
«= The AP and AC exchange Keepalive packets (through the UDP port 5247) to detect the
data tunnel connectivity.
¢ Control tunnel maintenance:
«= The AP and AC exchange Echo packets (through the UDP port 5246) to detect the
control tunnel connectivity.

ar eal STAAccess Data Forwarding
ry) ) Preconfigurations on the AC for APs to Go Online
* Configure DHCP servers to assign IP addresses to APs and STAs. The AC can function as a DHCP server.
COTES SLES SETTER) y* . Configure network connectivity between APs and the DHCP server, and between APs and the AC.
—_ Each AP will be added and can be added to only one AP group. In most cases, we configure an AP group to
CHEESE GELS >| provide the same configurations for multiple APs.
Configure the country code on the AC L_ A country code identifies the country in which the APs are deployed. Country codes regulate different AP radio
(regulatory domain profile) attributes, including the transmit power and supported channels.
|
Configure a source interface or address L_ Specify a unique source IP address or source interface on each AC. APs must learn the specified source IP
(for establishing CAPWAP tunnels with APs) address or the IP address of the source interface to communicate with the AC and establish CAPWAP tunnels.
; : In automatic upgrade mode, an AP checks whether its version is the same as that configured on the AC, SFTP
(Optional) Configure the automatic AP upgrade | ---» server, or FTP server when going online. If the two versions are different, the AP upgrades its version, restarts, and
goes online again. If the two versions are the same, the AP does not upgrade its version.
Add APs
(configure the AP authentication mode)
-+---> Youcan add APs by importing them in offline mode, automatic discovery, and manual confirmation.
Page 31 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Regulatory domain profile:
« A regulatory domain profile provides configurations of the country code, calibration
channel, and calibration bandwidth for an AP.
«= Acountry code identifies the country in which the APs are deployed. Country codes
regulate different
 
AP radio attributes, including the transmit power and supported
channels. Correct country code configuration ensures that radio attributes of APs
comply with local laws and regulations.
¢ Configure a source interface or address on the AC.
2 Specify a unique IP address, VLANIF interface, or Loopback interface on an AC. In this
manner, APs connected to the AC can learn the specified IP address or the IP address
of the specified interface to establish CAPWAP tunnels with the AC. This specified IP
address or interface is called the source address or interface.
2 Only after the unique source interface or address is specified on an AC, can APs
establish CAPWAP tunnels with the AC.
«2 A VLANIF or Loopback interface can be used as the source interface, and their IP
addresses can be configured as the source address.
¢ Add APs: Configure the AP authentication mode and enable APs to go online.
= You can add APs by importing them in offline mode, automatic discovery, and manual
confirmation.

AP Onboarding STAAccess Data Forwarding
Ga) ) WLAN Working Process: Step 2
Campus
Network
WLAN Working Process
AP onboardin
Configuration Update Request [ ® g
DHCP Server [ 2] WLAN service configuration delivery |
AC
ey > ed The AC sends a Configuration Update Request to an AP. If the
f
t /
1 i
I
1
\ cf
‘
,
‘ ‘
‘
Configuration AC receives a Configuration Update Response from the AP, the
Update Response AC then delivers service configuration to the AP.
\
‘
‘ N
‘
(G3) STAaccess
C7 Clg
Page 32 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
(@ WLANservice data forwarding
¢ Afteran AP goes online, it sends a Configuration Status Request containing its running
configuration to the AC. The AC then compares the AP's running configuration with the local
AP configuration. If they are inconsistent, the AC sends a Configuration Status Response
message to the AP.
¢ Note: After an AP goes online, it obtains the existing configuration from the AC. The AC then
manages the AP and delivers service configurations to the AP.

AP Onboarding Deter STAAccess Data Forwarding
[=| ) WLAN Profiles
e Various profiles are designed based on different functions and features of WLAN networks to help users
configure and maintain functions of WLAN networks. These profiles are called VWWLAN profiles.
Bound to regulatory domain Li .° A regulatory domain profile provides configurations of country code,
- profile calibration channel, and calibration bandwidth for an AP.
Bound to . . ¢ Radio profiles are used to optimize radio parameters, and control the
< Radio profile na ee . ae .
in-service channel switching function.
Bound to . ¢ Configure parameters in the VAP profile and reference the SSID profile,
AP or < VAP profile nnd gene Pe ee P
AP group security profile, and authentication profile.
Bound to . . . .
< Other profiles ---> * AP System Profile, Location Profile, WIDS Profile, Mesh Profile and etc.
Configure radio L_,° Configure the bandwidth, channel, antenna gain, transmit power,
parameters coverage distance, and operating frequency band of a specified radio.
Page 33 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ To simplify the configuration of a large number of APs, you can add them to an AP group and
perform centralized configuration. However, APs may have different configurations. These
configurations cannot be uniformly performed but can be directly performed on each AP.Each
AP must and can only join one AP group when going online. If an AP obtains both AP group
and specific configurations from an AC, the AP specific configurations are preferentially used.
¢ Various profiles can be bound to the AP group and AP: regulatory domain profile, radio profile,
VAP profile, Location profile, AP system profile, WIDS profile, AP wired port profile, WDS
profile, and Mesh profile. Some of the listed profiles can further reference other profiles.
2 Regulatory domain profile
= Acountry code identifies the country to which AP radios belong. Different
countries support different
 
AP radio attributes, including the transmit power and
supported channels. Correct country code configuration ensures that radio
attributes of APs comply with laws and regulations of countries and regions to
which the APs are delivered.
= Acalibration channel set limits the dynamic AP channel adjustment range when
the radio calibration function is configured. Radar channels and the channels that
are not supported by STAs are avoided.
= Radio profile
= You can adjust and optimize radio parameters to adapt to different network
environments, enabling APs to provide required radio capabilities and improving
signal quality of WLANs. After parameters in a radio profile are delivered to an AP,
only the parameters supported by the AP can take effect.
= Parameters that can be configured include the radio type, radio rate, multicast rate
of radio packets, and interval at which an AP sends Beacon frames.
no \WAD nrafila

AP Onboarding Deter STAAccess Data Forwarding
ry) ) VAP Profile
*« An SSID specifies a wireless network. When you search for available
Bound to Create an wireless networks on a STA, the displayed wireless network names are
<—_——— . eel
SSID profile SSIDs.
¢« An SSID profile is used to configure the SSID name of a WLAN.
Bound to Create a Ly? You can configure WLAN security policies to authenticate STAs and
security profile encrypt user packets, protecting the security of the WLAN and users.
VAP Profile |
Configure the data L.° Control packets (management packets) and data packets are
forwarding mode transmitted on a WLAN.
Configure service Ly? Layer 2 data packets delivered from the VAP to an AP carry the service
VLANs VLAN IDs.
Page 34 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢« AnSSID profile is used to configure the SSID name and other access parameters of a WLAN.
The following parameters are set in an SSID profile:
a SSID hiding: This functions enables an AP to hide the SSID of a WLAN. Only the users
who know the SSID can connect to the WLAN, improving security.
a Maximum number of STAs on a VAP: More access users on a VAP indicate fewer
network resources that are available to each user. To ensure Internet experience of
users, you can configure a proper maximum number of access users on a VAP
according to actual network situations.
2 SSID hiding when the number of STAs reaches the maximum: When this function is
enabled and the number of access users on a WLAN reaches the maximum, the SSID
of the WLAN is hidden and new users cannot find the SSID.
* Security profile: You can configure WLAN security policies to authenticate STAs and encrypt
user packets, protecting the security of the WLAN and users.
= The supported WLAN security policies include open system authentication, WEP,
WPA/WPA2-PSK, and WPA/WPA2-802.1 X. You can configure one of them in a security
profile.
¢ Data forwarding mode:
= Control packets are forwarded through CAPWAP control tunnels. Data packets are
forwarded in tunnel forwarding (centralized forwarding) or direct forwarding (local
forwarding) mode. The data forwarding modes will be detailed later in the course.
* Service VLAN:
2 Since WLANs provide flexible access modes, STAs may connect to the same WLAN at
tha naffira antranra nr etadinm antranra and than raam tn diffarant APe

ry) ) WLAN Working Process: Step 3
Campus
Network
WLAN Working Process
(AP onboarding
DHCP Server AC [ (2) WLAN service configuration delivery |
Ei 3) STA access
STAs can access a WLAN after CAPWAP tunnels are
established.
The STA access process consists of six phases: scanning, link
authentication, association, access authentication, DHCP, and
user authentication.
AP AP
eco (@ WLANservice data forwarding
C7 Clg
Page 35 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding eve D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
) Scanning
e Inactive scanning, a STA periodically searches for nearby wireless networks.
*) Scanning e The STA can send two types of Probe Request frames: probes containing an SSID
and probes that do not contain an SSID.
Active Scanning by Sending a Probe Request Active Scanning by Sending a Probe Request
Frame Containing an SSID Frame —_— No SSID
Probe Request prateae (cy) AP1
(SSID: huawei) nse
Ld me 3) eee
Probe Response
STA AP1 Il Probe Roo.
(SSID: huawei) reaues (@) APn
0
 
8
 
9O
* The STA sends a Probe Request containing an * The STA periodically beadoasts a Probe Request
SSID on each channel to search for the AP with the frame that does not contain an SSID on the
same SSID. Only the AP with the same SSID will supported channels. The APs return Probe
respond to the STA. Response frames to notify the STA of the wireless
services they can provide.
Page 36 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Active scanning:
2 Probes containing an SSID: applies when a STA actively scans wireless networks to
access a specified wireless network.
= Probes that do not contain an SSID: applies when a STA actively scans wireless
networks to determine whether wireless services are available.
« Passive scanning:
« STAs can passively scan wireless networks.
a In passive scanning mode, a STA listens to Beacon frames (containing the SSID and
supported rate) periodically sent by an AP to discover surrounding wireless networks.
By default, an AP sends Beacon frames at an interval of 100 TUs (1 TU = 1024 us).

AP Onboarding Eten D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
) WLAN Security Protocols
e As WLAN technologies use radio signals to transmit service data, service data can
be easily intercepted or tampered with by attackers when being transmitted on open
wireless channels. Ensuring WLAN security is crucial to building safe and effective
Link authentication wireless networks.
Oo
¢ Common security policy:
Link Access
Security Policy Authentication Authentication Data Encryption
© Access authentication Open system No encryption or WEP Insecure policy
WEP Shared-k
ared-key .
Authentication N/A WEP Insecure policy
2) WPA/WPA2- Amore secure policy, applicable
802.1X Open system 802.1X (EAP) TKIP or CCMP to large enterprises
More secure policy, applicable
 
to
WPA/WPA2-PSK _— Opensystem PSK TKIP or CCMP small- and medium-sized
Page 37
enterprises or household users
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Three WLAN security policies are available: Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), Wi-Fi Protected
Access (WPA), and WPA2. Each security policy has a series of security mechanisms,
including link authentication used to establish a wireless link, user authentication used when
users attempt to connect to a wireless network, and data encryption used during data
transmission.
* WEP
a
WEP, defined in IEEE 802.11, is used to protect data of authorized users from being
intercepted during transmission on a WLAN. WEP uses the RC4 algorithm to encrypt
data through a 64-bit, 128-bit, or 152-bit key. Each encryption key contains a 24-bit
initialization vector (IV) generated by the system. Therefore, the length of the key
configured on the WLAN server and client is 40 bits, 104 bits, or 128 bits. WEP uses a
static encryption key. All STAs associating with the same SSID use the same key to
connect to the WLAN.
* WPA/WPA2
a
WEP shared key authentication uses the Rivest Cipher 4 (RC4) symmetric stream
cipher to encrypt data. Therefore, the same static key must be preconfigured on the
server and clients. Both the encryption mechanism and algorithm, however, are prone to
security threats. To address this challenge, the Wi-Fi Alliance developed WPA to
overcome WEP defects. In addition to the RC4 algorithm, WPA defines the Temporal
Key Integrity Protocol (TKIP) encryption algorithm on the basis of WEP, uses the 802.1X
identity authentication framework, and supports Extensible Authentication Protocol-
Protected Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP-PEAP) and EAP-Transport Layer
Security (EAP-TLS) authentication. Later, 802.111 defined WPA2. WPA2 uses a more
secure encryption algorithm, that is, Counter Mode with CBC-MAC Protocol (CCMP).

8
[= ) Link Authentication
AP Onboarding eve D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
¢ To ensure wireless link security, an AP needs to authenticate STAs that attempt to access the AP.
e |EEE 802.11 defines two authentication modes: open system authentication and shared key authentication.
Link authentication Open System Authentication Shared Key Authentication
)
Authentication Request Authentication Request .
> Authentication Response
L Authentication Response (5) (Challenge)
- AP
STA
“Authentication Response
(Encrypted Challenge)
Authentication Response
(Success)
<
* Open system authentication requires no authentication, « Shared key authentication requires that the STA and AP
allowing any STA to be successfully authenticated. have the same shared key preconfigured. The AP checks
whether a STA has the same shared key to determine the
authentication result. If the STA has the same shared key as
the AP, the STA is authenticated. Otherwise, STA
authentication fails.
Page 38 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
A WLAN needs to ensure validity and security of STA access. To achieve this, STAs need to
be authenticated before accessing the WLAN. This process is known as link authentication,
which is usually considered the beginning of STA access.
Shared key authentication:
a The same shared key is configured for STAs and APs in advance. The AP checks
whether the STA has the same shared key during link authentication. If so, the STA is
successfully authenticated. Otherwise, STA authentication fails.
« Authentication process:
1.
2.
The STA sends an Authentication Request packet to the AP.
The AP generates a challenge and sends it to the STA.
The STA uses the preconfigured key to encrypt the challenge and sends the
encrypted challenge to the AP.
The AP uses the preconfigured key to decrypt the encrypted challenge and
compares the decrypted challenge with the challenge sent to the STA. If the two
challenges are the same, the STA is successfully authenticated. Otherwise, STA
authentication fails.

)
Al Association
[= ) Association
AP Onboarding eve D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
After link authentication is complete, a STA initiates link service negotiation using
Association packets.
The STA association process is actually a link service negotiation process, during
which the supported rate, channel, and the like are negotiated.
STA AC
ra ED
1. Association Request
2. Association Request
. Association Response
AW
4. Association Response
Page 39 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢« STA association in the Fit AP architecture consists of the following steps:
1. The STA sends an Association Request packet to the AP. The Association Request
packet carries the STA's parameters and the parameters selected by the STA
according to the service configuration, including the transmission rate, channel, and
QoS capabilities.
2. After receiving the Association Request packet, the AP encapsulates the packet into a
CAPWAP packet and sends the CAPWAP packet to the AC.
3. The AC determines whether to permit the STA access according to the received
Association Request packet and replies with a CAPWAP packet containing an
Association Response.
4. The AP decapsulates the CAPWAP packet to obtain the Association Response, and
sends the Association Response to the STA.

AP Onboarding eve D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
[=] ) Access Authentication
e User access authentication differentiates users and controls access rights of users.
@ Compared with link authentication, access authentication is more secure.
e Major access authentication modes include PSK authentication and 802.1X
authentication.
a GY
© Access authentication
@
~—
QS
Access authentication is performed on
STA | the wireless-side interface, allowing
STAs to send data over wireless links.
6
Page 40 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
« Data encryption:
2 In addition to user access authentication, data packets need to be encrypted to ensure
data security, which is also implemented in the access authentication phase. After a
data packet is encrypted, only the device that holds the key can decrypt the packet.
Other devices cannot decrypt the packet even if they receive the packet because they
do not have the corresponding key.

APO
ng eiiuration FT 0212 Forwarsing
STA Address Allocation
e The prerequisite for APs and STAs to go online properly is that they have obtained
oe) IP addresses.
e If STAs obtain IP addresses through DHCP, the AC or aggregation switch can
function as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to the STAs. In most cases, the
aggregation switch is used as the DHCP server.
Ay STA A (Aggregation Switch)
LJ] (6 (|) Network ———_
6 DHCP Discover
6 DHCP . DHCP Offer
DHCP Request
© DHCP Ack
Page 41 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding eve D> starccess 4 Data Forwarding
User Authentication
e User authentication is an end-to-end security architecture, supporting 802.1X, MAC
address, and Portal authentication modes.
Portal Authentication oTM
¢ Portal authentication is also known O
as web authentication. Portal
authentication websites are Huawei-Guest
referred to as web portals.
o
 
©
 
@
To access the Internet, users must
be authenticated on web portals.
The users can access network
resources only after successful
authentication.
©
+86
a,
UY
UY
©
@ User authentication
Page 42 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ With the application and development of enterprise networks, threats increasingly bring risks,
such as viruses, Trojan horses, spyware, and malicious network attacks. On a traditional
enterprise network, the intranet is considered secure and threats come from the extranet.
However, research shows that 80% of cyber security vulnerabilities come from inside the
network. The network security threats and viruses affect the network seriously, leading to
system or network crashes. In addition, when intranet users browse websites on the external
network, the spyware and Trojan horse software may be automatically installed on users’
computers, which cannot be sensed by the users. The malicious software may spread on the
intranet.
« Therefore, as security challenges keep escalating, traditional security measures are far from
enough. The security model needs to be changed from the passive mode to active mode.
Thoroughly solving network security problems from the root (terminal) can improve the
information security level of the entire enterprise.

Ga) ) WLAN Working Process: Step 4
WLAN Working Process
AP onboarding
DHCP Server WLAN service configuration delivery
STA access
=
>
 
HORTONS)
WLAN service data forwarding
Control packets (management packets) and data packets are
transmitted over CAPWAP tunnels.
* Control packets are forwarded through the CAPWAP
control tunnel.
DY ¢ User data packets can be forwarded in tunnel forwarding
| U (centralized forwarding) or direct forwarding (local
forwarding) mode.
Page 43 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding eve SUNRESESE Forwarding
Ga) ) Data Forwarding Mode
CAPWAP tunnel SB CAPWAP tunnel > rn N
Service data traffic Service data traffic
oo oo
Management traffic
AP
* In tunnel forwarding mode, APs encapsulate user data packets * In direct forwarding mode, an AP directly forwards user data
over a CAPWAP data tunnel and send them to an AC. The AC packets to an upper-layer network without encapsulating them
then forwards these packets to an upper-layer network. over a CAPWAP data tunnel.
Page 44 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Tunnel forwarding mode:
« Advantages: An AC forwards all data packets, ensuring security and facilitating
centralized management and control.
« Disadvantages: Service data must be forwarded by an AC, which is inefficient and
increases the load on the AC.
¢ Direct forwarding mode:
1 Advantages: Service data packets do not need to be forwarded by an AC, improving
packet forwarding efficiency and reducing the burden on the AC.
« Disadvantages: Service data is difficult to manage and control in a centralized manner.

Page 45
) Contents
WLAN Overview
Basic Concepts of WLAN
WLAN Fundamentals
WLAN Configuration Implementation
Next-Generation WLAN Solutions
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

AP Onboarding WLAN Services
Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring an AP to Go Online (1)
1. Configure the AC as a DHCP server and configure the Option 48 field.
[AC-ip-pool-pool1] option code [ sub-option sub-code ] { ascii ascii-string | hex hex-string | cipher cipher-string |
ip-address jp-address
Configure the user-defined option that a DHCP server assigns to a DHCP client.
2. Create a regulatory domain profile and configure the country code.
[AC] wlan
[AC-wlan-view]
Enter the WLAN view.
[AC-wlan-view] regulatory-domain-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-regulate-domain-profile-name]
Create a regulatory domain profile and enter the regulatory domain profile view, or enter the view of an existing
regulatory domain profile.
[AC-wlan-regulate-domain-profile-name] country-code country-code
Configure the country code.
Page 46 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: option code
 
[ sub-option sub-code
 
| { ascii ascii-string
 
| hex hex-string | cipher
cipher-string | ip-address /p-address }
2 code: specifies the code of a user-defined option. The value is an integer that ranges
from 1 to 254, except values 1, 3, 6, 15, 44, 46, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 57, 58, 59, 61, 82,
121 and 184.
« gsub-option sub-code: specifies the code of a user-defined sub-option. The value is an
integer ranging from 1 to 254. For details about well-known options, see RFC 2132.
«= ascii | hex | cipher: specifies the user-defined option code as an ASCII character string,
hexadecimal character string, or ciphertext character string.
2 jp-address /p-address: specifies the user-defined option code as an IP address.
* Command: regulatory-domain-profile name profile-name
2 name profile-name: specifies the name of a regulatory domain profile. The value is a
string of 1 to 35 case-insensitive characters. It cannot contain question marks (?) or
spaces, and cannot start or end with double quotation marks (").
* Command: country-code country-code
2 country-code: specifies a country code. The value is a string of characters in
enumerated type.
2 The AC supports multiple country codes, such as:
= CN (default value): China
= AU: Australia
= CA: Canada

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:”
Configuring an AP to Go Online (2)
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name
[AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name]
Create an AP group and enter the AP group view, or enter the view of an existing AP group.
[AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name] regulatory-domain-profile profile-name
Bind the regulatory domain profile to an AP or AP group.
3. Configure a source interface or address.
Page 47
[AC] capwap source interface { loopback /oopback-number | vianif vian-id }
Specify a source interface on the AC for establishing CAPWAP tunnels with APs.
[AC] capwap source ip-address ip-address
Configure the source IP address on the AC.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Command: ap-group name group-name
a
name group-name: specifies the name of an AP group. The value is a string of 1 to 35
characters. It cannot contain question marks (?), slashes (/), or soaces, and cannot start
or end with double quotation marks (").

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring an AP to Go Online (3)
4. Add APs in offline mode.
[AC-wlan-view] ap auth-mode { mac-auth | sn-auth }
Set the AP authentication mode to MAC address or SN authentication. By default, MAC address authentication is
used.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-id ap-id [ [ type-id type-id | ap-type ap-type ] { ap-mac ap-mac | ap-sn ap-sn | ap-mac ap-mac
ap-sn ap-sn } ]
[AC-wlan-ap-ap-id] ap-name ap-name
Manually add an AP in offline mode or enter the AP view, and configure the name of a single AP.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0
[AC-wlan-ap-0] ap-group ap-group
Add the AP to an AP group.
5. Verify the configuration.
[AC] display ap { all | ap-group ap-group }}
Check AP information.
Page 48 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: ap-id ap-id[ [ type-id type-id
 
| ap-type ap-type
 
] { ap-mac ap-mac
 
| ap-sn ap-sn
 
|
ap-mac ap-macap-sn ap-sn} |
2 ap-id: specifies the ID of an AP. The value is an integer that ranges from 0 to 8191.
« type-id: specifies the ID of an AP type. The value is an integer that ranges from 0 to 255.
1 ap-type: specifies the type of an AP. The value is a string of 1 to 31 characters.
2 ap-mac: specifies the MAC address of an AP. The value is in H-H-H format. An H is a 4-
digit hexadecimal number.
2 ap-sn:specifies the SN of an AP. The value is a string of 1 to 31 characters, and can
contain only letters and digits.

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring Radios (1)
1. Enter the radio view.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0
[AC-wlan-ap-0] radio radio-id
[AC-wlan-radio-0]
2. Configure the working bandwidth and channel for a radio.
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] channel { 20mhz | 40mhz-minus | 40mhz-plus | 80mhz | 160mhz } channel
Warning: This action may cause service interruption. Continue?[Y/N]y
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] channel 80+80mhz channel1 channel2
Warning: This action may cause service interruption. Continue?[Y/N]y
Configure the working bandwidth and channel for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.
3. Configure the antenna gain.
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] antenna-gain antenna-gain
Configure the antenna gain for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.
Page 49 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: radio radio-id
2 radio-id: specifies the ID of a radio. The radio ID must exist.
¢ Commands:
« channel { 20mhz | 40mhz-minus | 40mhz-plus | 80mhz | 160mhz } channe/
2 channel 80+80mhz channel/1 channel2
s 20mhz: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 20 MHz.
« 40Qmhz-minus: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 40 MHz Minus.
« 40mhz-plus: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 40 MHz Plus.
«= §80mhz: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 80 MHz.
« 160mhz: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 160 MHz.
= 80+80mhz: sets the working bandwidth of a radio to 80+80 MHz.
2 channel/channel1/channel2:
 
specifies the working channel for a radio. The channel is
selected based on the country code and radio mode. The parameter is an enumeration
value. The value range is determined according to the country code and radio mode.
* Command: antenna-gain antenna-gain
2 antenna-gain: specifies the antenna gain. The value is an integer that ranges from 0 to
30, in dB.

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands: ==
Configuring Radios (2)
4. Configure the transmit power for a radio.
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] eirp eirp
Configure the transmit power for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.
5. Configure the radio coverage distance.
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] coverage distance distance
Configure the radio coverage distance for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.
6. Configure the operating frequency for a radio.
[AC-wlan-radio-0/0] frequency { 2.4g | 5g }
Page50 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: eirp e/rp
2 @irp: specifies the transmit power. The value is an integer that ranges from 1 to 127, in
dBm.
* Command: coverage distance distance
2 distance: specifies the radio coverage distance. Each distance corresponds to a group
of slottime, acktimeout, and ctstimeout values. You can configure the radio coverage
distance based on the AP distance, so that APs adjust the values of slottime,
acktimeout, and ctstimeout values accordingly. The value is an integer that ranges from
1 to 400, in 100 meters.
* Command: frequency
 
{ 2.4g | 5g }
= By default, radio 0 works on the 2.4 GHz frequency band, and radio 2 works on the 5
GHz frequency band.

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring Radios (3)
[AC-wlan-view] radio-2g-profile name profile-name
Create a 2G radio profile and enter the 2G radio profile view, or enter the view of an existing 2G radio profile.
8. Bind the radio profile.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name
[AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name] radio-2g-profile profile-name radio { radio-id | all }
Bind the specified 2G radio profile to the 2G radio in the AP group.
Page 51 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: radio-2g-profile name profile-name
2 name profile-name: specifies the name of a 2G radio profile. The value is a string of 1 to
35 case-insensitive characters. It cannot contain question marks (?) or spaces, and
cannot start or end with double quotation marks (").
« By default, the system provides the 2G radio profile default.
* Command: radio-2g-profile profile-name radio { radio-id
 
| all }
2 profile-name: specifies the name of a 2G radio profile. The 2G radio profile must exist.
2 radio radio-id: specifies the ID of a radio. The value is an integer that can be 0 or 2.
2 radio all: specifies all radios.

Configuring VAPs (1)
1. Create a VAP profile.
[AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name]
Create a VAP profile and enter the VAP profile view, or enter the view of an existing VAP profile.
2. Configure the data forwarding mode.
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] forward-mode {
 
direct-forward | tunnel }
Set the data forwarding mode in the VAP profile to direct or tunnel.
3. Configure service VLANs.
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] service-vlan { vlan-id vian-id | vian-pool pool-name }
Configure service VLANs configured for the VAP.
Page52 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Ap Onboarding D wean services

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring VAPs (2)
4. Configure a security profile.
[AC-wlan-view] security-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-sec-prof-profile-name]
Create a security profile and enter the security profile view.
By default, security profiles default, default-wds, and default-mesh are available in the system.
[AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] security-profile profile-name
Bind the security profile to the VAP profile.
Page 53 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:
Configuring VAPs (3)
5. Configure an SSID profile.
[AC-wlan-view] ssid-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-ssid-prof-profile-name]
Create an SSID profile and enter the SSID profile view, or enter the view of an existing SSID profile.
By default, the system provides the SSID profile default.
[AC-wlan-ssid-prof-profile-name] ssid ssid
Configure an SSID for the SSID profile.
By default, the SSID HUAWEI-WLAN is configured in an SSID profile.
[AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name profile-name
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] ssid-profile profile-name
Bind the SSID profile to the VAP profile.
Page54 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: ssid ssid
2 ssid: specifies an SSID. The value is a string of 1 to 32 case-sensitive characters. It
supports Chinese characters or Chinese + English characters, without tab characters.
= To start an SSID with a space, you need to encompass the SSID with double quotation
marks ("), for example, " hello". The double quotation marks occupy two characters. To
start an SSID with a double quotation mark, you need to add a backslash (\) before the
double quotation mark, for example, \"hello. The backslash occupies one character.

Basic WLAN Configuration Commands: a?
Configuring VAPs (4)
6. Bind the VAP profile.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name
[AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name] vap-profile profile-name wlan wlan-id radio { radio-id | all } [ service-vlan {
vian-id vian-id | vian-pool pool-name }
 
]
Bind the specified VAP profile to radios in an AP group.
7. Check VAP information.
[AC] display vap { ap-group ap-group-name | { ap-name ap-name | ap-id ap-id }[ radio radio-id ] }[
ssid ssid
 
|
[AC] display vap { all | ssid ssid
 
}
Display information about service VAPs.
Page55 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
* Command: display vap { ap-group ap-group-name
 
| { ap-name ap-name
 
| ap-id ap-id} [
radio radio-id |} [ ssid ssid
 
|
2 ap-group-name: displays information about all service VAPs in a specified AP group.
The AP group must exist.
2 ap-name: displays information about service VAPs on the AP with a specified name.
The AP name must exist.
2 ap-id: displays information about service VAPs on the AP with a specified ID. The AP ID
must exist.
2 radio-id: Displays information about service VAPs of a specified radio. The value is an
integer that ranges from 0 to 2.
2 ssid: Displays information about service VAPs of a specified SSID. The SSID must exist.
* Command: display vap { all | ssid ssid}
2 all: displays information about all service VAPs.

@ Example for Configuring Layer 2 Tunnel
Forwarding in Off-Path Mode
Management VLAN for APs VLAN 100
Service VLAN for STAs VLAN 101
The AC functions as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to APs.
DHCP server The aggregation switch S2 functions as a DHCP server to assign IP
GE0/0/2 addresses to STAs. The default gateway address of STAs is 10.23.101.1.
$2
GE0/0/1 IP address pool for APs 10.23.100.2—10.23.100.254/24
VLANIF 101 | GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100 IP address pool for STAs 10.23.101.2-10.23.101.254/24
10.23.101.1/24 10.23.100.1/24 IP address of the AC's ;
GE0/0/2 source interface WLANE: 100: 10.25-100-1/26
Name: ap-group1
$1 AP group Referenced profiles: VAP profile wlan-net and regulatory domain profile
GEO0/0/1 Regulatory domain profile Name: default
Country code: CN
Name: wlan-net
AP SSID profile SSID name: wlan-net
Name: wlan-net
e Security profile Security policy: WPA-WPA2+PSK+AES
~~ Password: a1234567
A Name: wlan-net
Dy
Forwarding mode: tunnel forwarding
STA | (] VAP profile Service VLAN: VLAN 101
Referenced profiles: SSID profile wlan-net and security profile wlan-net
Page 56 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Service requirements
a An enterprise wants to enable users to access the Internet through a WLAN, meeting
the basic mobile office requirements.
« Networking requirements
2 AC networking mode: Layer 2 networking in off-path mode
«2 DHCP deployment mode:
= The AC functions as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to APs.
«= The aggregation switch S2 functions as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to
STAs.
a Service data forwarding mode: tunnel forwarding
¢ Configuration roadmap
= Configure network connectivity between the AC, APs, and other network devices.
« Configure the APs to go online.
= Create an AP group and add APs that require the same configuration to the group
for unified configuration.
= Configure AC system parameters, including the country code and source interface
used by the AC to communicate with the APs.
= Configure the AP authentication mode and imports the APs in offline mode for
them to go online.
2 Configure WLAN service parameters for STAs to access the WLAN.

Ga) ) Configuring Network Connectivity
1. Create VLANs and interfaces on S1, S2, and AC.
Cuernt 2. Configure DHCP servers to assign IP addresses to APs
and STAs.
GEO/0/S AC # Configure VLANIF 100 on the AC to assign IP address to APs.
$2 GE0/0/2
AC] dh bl
VLANIF 104 GEO/0/1 [AC] dhcp enable
10.23.101.1/24 GEO0/0/1 VLANIF 100 [AC] interface vlanif 100
10.23.100.1/24 . .
GE0/0/2 [AC-Vlanif100] ip address 10.23.100.1 24
—_ [AC-Vlanif100] dhcp select interface
- — # Configure VLANIF 101 on S2 to assign IP addresses to STAs and
GEO/0/1 specify 10.23.101.1 as the default gateway address of the STAs.
AP [S2] dhcp enable
[S2] interface vlanif 101
[S2-Vlanif101] ip address 10.23.101.1 24
[S2-Vlanif101] dhcp select interface
STA L J 0
Page57 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ 1. Create VLANs and interfaces on $1, S2, and AC.
2 $1 configuration:
[S1] vlan batch 100
[S1] interface gigabitethernet 0/0/1
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/1 | port link-type trunk
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/1] port trunk pvid vlan 100
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/1] port trunk allow-pass vlan 100
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/1 | quit
[S1] interface gigabitethernet 0/0/2
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/2] port link-type trunk
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/2] port trunk allow-pass vlan 100
[S1-GigabitEthernet0/0/2] quit
a $2 configuration:
[S2] vlan batch 100 101
[S2] interface gigabitethernet 0/0/1
[S2-GigabitEthernet0/0/1] port link-type trunk
[S2-GigabitEthernet0/0/1 ] port trunk allow-pass vlan 100
[S2-GigabitEthernet0/0/1 | quit
[S2] interface gigabitethernet 0/0/2

Page 58
Ga) ) Configuring APs to Go Online (1)
<>
GE0/0/3 AC
GE0/0/2
$2
VLANIF 101 GEO/O/1
10.23.101.1/24 GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100
10.23.100.1/24
GE0/0/2
$1 {il
GEO/0/1
AP (
 
P)
(
STA L J 0
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Network - -
‘Connectivity AP Onboarding WLAN Services
1. Create an AP group.
[AC] wlan
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit
2. Create a regulatory domain profile and configure the
country code.
AC-wlan-view] regulatory-domain-profile name default
[AC-wlan-regulate-domain-default] country-code cn
[AC-wlan-regulate-domain-default] quit
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] regulatory-domain-profile default
Warning: Modifying the country code will clear channel, power and
antenna gain configurations of the radio and reset the AP. Continu
e?[Y/N]:y
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit
[AC-wlan-view] quit

Network - -
‘Connectivity AP Onboarding WLAN Services
Ga) ) Configuring APs to Go Online (2)
3. Configure the AC's source interface.
[AC] capwap source interface vlanif 100
GE0/0/3 AC
4. Import an AP in offline mode on the AC.
GE0/0/2
s2 GE0/0/1
VLANIF 101
10.23.101.1/24 | GEO/O/1 VLANIF 100 [AC] wlan
10.23.100.1/24 [AC-wlan-view] ap auth-mode mac-auth
GE0/0/2
[AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0 ap-mac 60de-4476-e360
$1 [AC-wlan-ap-0] ap-name area_1
{il
GEO/0/1 Warning: This operation may cause AP reset. Continue? [Y/N]:y
[AC-wlan-ap-0] ap-group ap-group1
AP (
 
Y) Warning: This operation may cause AP reset. If the country code
changes, it will clear channel, power and antenna gain configurations
of the radio, Whether to continue? [Y/N]:y
[AC-wlan-ap-0] quit
Sot
mol O
Page59 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Import an AP in offline mode on the AC.
« Add the AP to the AP group ap-group1. Assume that an AP's MAC address is 60de-
4476-e360. Configure a name for the AP based on the AP's deployment location, so that
you can know where the AP is deployed from its name. For example, name the AP
area_1 if it is deployed in area 1.

A )) Verifying the AP Onboarding Configuration
e After the AP is powered on, run the display ap all command to check the AP state. If the State field
displays nor, the AP has gone online.
[AC-wlan-view] display ap all
Total AP information:
nor : normal [1]
Extra information:
P : insufficient power supply
ID MAC Name Group IP Type State STA Uptime — Extralnfo
0 60de-4476-e360 area_1 ap-group1 10.23.100.254 AP5030DN nor O 10S
Total: 1
Page 60 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Description of the display ap command output:
e ID: AP ID.
a MAC: AP MAC address.
«2 Name: AP name.
2 Group: Name of the AP group to which an AP belongs.
2 |IP: IP address of an AP. In NAT scenarios, APs are on the private network and the AC
on the public network. This value is an AP's private IP address. To check the public IP
address of an AP, run the display ap run-info command.
o Type: AP type.
2 State: AP state.
= normal: An AP has gone online on an AC and is working properly.
= commit-failed: WLAN service configurations
 
fail to be delivered to an AP after it
goes online on an AC.
= download: An AP is in upgrade state.
= fault: An AP fails to go online.
» idle: It is the initialization state of an AP before it establishes a link with the AC for
the first time.
> STA: Number of STAs connected to an AP.
2 Uptime: Online duration of an AP.
= Extralnfo: Extra information. The value P indicates an AP has no sufficient power
supply.

Network -
[AC-wlan-view] security-profile name wlan-net
s2 GEO/O/2 [AC-wlan-sec-prof-wlan-net] security wpa-wpa2 psk pass-phrase
VLANIF 101 GEO/O/1 41234567 aes
10.23.101.1/24 GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100
10.23.100.1/24 [AC-wlan-sec-prof-wlan-net] quit
GE0/0/2
s1 —
mY 2. Create SSID profile wlan-net and set the SSID name to
GEO/0/1 wlan-net.
[AC-wlan-view] ssid-profile name wlan-net
AP (
 
P) [AC-wlan-ssid-prof-wlan-net] ssid wlan-net
e
[AC-wlan-ssid-prof-wlan-net] quit
(
STA L J 0
Page 61 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

<>
GE0/0/3 AC
GE0/0/2
$2
VLANIF 101 GEO/O/1
10.23.101.1/24 GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100
10.23.100.1/24
GE0/0/2
$1 {il
GEO/0/1
AP (
 
P)
(
STA L J 0
Page 62 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Network
Connectivity
Configuring WLAN Service Parameters (2)
3. Create VAP profile wlan-net, set the data forwarding mode
and service VLAN, and bind the security profile and SSID
profile to the VAP profile.
[AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name wlan-net
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] forward-mode tunnel
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] service-vlan vian-id 101
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] security-profile wian-net
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] ssid-profile wlan-net
[AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] quit
4. Bind the VAP profile to the AP group and apply
configurations in VAP profile wlan-net to radio 0 and radio 1
of the APs in the AP group.
[AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] vap-profile wilan-net wlan 1 radio 0
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] vap-profile wilan-net wlan 1 radio 1
[AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit

Network -
Connectivity _/“P Onboarding D> wan services
[=| ) Checking VAP Profile Information
e The AC automatically delivers WLAN service configuration to the AP. After the service configuration is
complete, run the display vap ssid wlan-net command. If Status in the command output is displayed as
ON, the VAPs have been successfully created on AP radios.
[AC-wlan-view] display vap ssid wlan-net
WID : WLAN ID
AP ID AP name RflD WID BSSID Status Auth type STA SSID
0 area_1 0 1 60DE-4476-E360 ON WPA/WPA2-PSK 0 wian-net
0 area_1 1 1 60DE-4476-E370 ON WPA/WPA2-PSK 0 wian-net
Total:
 
2
Page 63 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Description of the display vap command output:
2 AP ID: AP ID.
2s AP name: AP name.
« RflD: Radio ID.
e WID: VAP ID.
2 SSID: SSID name.
2 BSSID: MAC address of a VAP.
2 Status: Current status of a VAP.
= ON: The VAP service is enabled.
= OFF: The VAP service is disabled.
« Auth type: VAP authentication mode.
2 STA: Number of STAs connected to a VAP.

Page 64
) Contents
WLAN Overview
Basic Concepts of WLAN
WLAN Fundamentals
WLAN Configuration Implementation
Next-Generation WLAN Solutions
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

G) Huawei WLAN Solutions Meet Future Wireless
Network Construction Requirements
« Use scenario-based customized solutions for complex and diversified application scenarios
Complete WLAN deployment and management solutions for campus networks and branch networks
All-scenario
802.11ac Wave 2 protocol, dual-5G radio coverage, and up to 3.46 Gbps wireless access bandwidth
. . Huawei is a key contributor
 
to the next-generation 802.11ax standard (Wi-Fi 6) with a single 5 GHz radio
High bandwidth
rate of up to 9.6 Gbps.
Roaming and multiple wireless QoS protocols such as Wi-Fi multimedia (WMM) to ensure QoS
.
Mainstream authentication and encryption modes, such as VWPA, VWPA2, VWWPAS, and WAP!
H ig h secu rity * Wireless intrusion detection
Portal and 802.1X authentication, protecting intranet security
APs support plug-and-play, automatic upgrade, automatic channe! selection, dynamic rate and power
adjustment, and load balancing.
Easy deployment * lol APs and APs with built-in high-density antennas, simplifying installation and enabling fast deployment
APs support cloud management and can work in dual-stack mode to smoothly switch between the cloud and
local management modes.
Page 65 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Dual Drivers (Technology Advances + Application
Development) Promote the Arrival of the Wi-Fi 6 Era
2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Technology re ee ee ee ee ee oto ba ta ba ts bal -
2011-* 802.11n * > 802.11ac <*> = 802.11ac 802.11ax >
Wave 1 Wave 2
oe October 2018
Wi-Fi standards are New Wi-Fi namin
upgraded every Wi-Fi 4 Wi-Fi 5 Wi-Fi 6 9
four to five vears convention released
yeas: by the WFA
- Rs - |! . ,
Appl ication wae mies) Cy Video 4K video Es Interactive
eae wisiess Video E-classroom conferencing conferencing 3D diagnosis VR/AR
| surveillance
Bandwidth per user: 2
to 4 Mbps
Latency < 50 ms
Page 66
Bandwidth per user: 4 to 12 Mbps
Latency < 30 ms
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Bandwidth per user > 50 Mbps
Latency < 10 ms
conferencing scenarios.
latency of as low as 10 ms.
Wi-Fi 5 cannot meet the low service latency and high bandwidth requirements of 4K/8K video
Powered by Huawei SmartRadio intelligent application acceleration, Wi-Fi 6 achieves a

High Bandwidth
@ Rate of up to 9.6 Gbps
@ Bandwidth increased by 4 times
ry) ) Wi-Fi 6 Vs. Wi-Fi 5
High Concurrency Rate
Frequency
A
cee
L [| {fT et)
Pa _
Time
UL/DL OFDMA
UL/DL MU-MIMO
User
 
2
Access of 1024 STAs per AP
Number of concurrent users
increased by 4 times
Page67 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Low Latency
OFDMA
Spatial Reuse
@ Service latency reduced to 20 ms
@ Average latency reduced by 30%
Low Power
Consumption
5
TWT
20 MHz-Only
@ Target wakeup time
(TWT) mechanism
@ STA power
consumption reduced
by 30%
¢ Currently, the theoretical rate of all Wi-Fi 5 products (Wave 2) is 2.5 Gbit/s, and that of Wi-Fi 6
products is 9.6 Gbit/s. Therefore, Wi-Fi 6 increases the rate by four folds compared with Wi-Fi
5.
« W/-Fi6 increases the number of concurrent users by four folds compared with Wi-Fi 5. In the
actual test, at a per user bandwidth of 2 Mbit/s, the concurrent number of users supported by
Wi-Fi 5 is 100, and that supported by Wi-Fi 6 is 400.
« The average latency supported by Wi-Fi 6 is about 20 ms (about 30 ms in Wi-Fi 5). Huawei
SmartRadio intelligent application acceleration technology further reduces the service latency
to as low as 10 ms.
¢« TWT is not supported by Wi-Fi 5.

@ Next-Generation Campus Network: Intent-
Driven Campus (Small- and Medium-Sized)
Fy ef iMaster NCE
Basic Concepts
Internet * The cloud management platform allows centralized management
and maintenance of devices at any place, greatly reducing network
deployment and O&M costs.
|
« Applicable scope: small- and medium-sized enterprises
Egress Gateway iuzci Branch Office
Advantages (Compared with the AC + Fit AP Architecture)
| Switch FY) Cloud AP * Plug-and-play and automatic deployment reduce network
deployment costs.
. ¢ All network elements (NEs) are monitored and managed on the
Cloud . te
AP STA cloud management platform in a unified manner.
» ¢ Cloud solutions usually provide various tools on the cloud, reducing
L [] STA costs.
Campus HQ ( Campus Branch
Page 68 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Disadvantages of traditional network solutions:
2 Traditional network solutions have many network deployment problems, such as high
deployment costs and O&M difficulties. These problems are obvious in enterprises with
many branches or geographically dispersed branches.
¢« Cloud management architecture:
«= The cloud management architecture can solve the problems faced by traditional network
solutions. The cloud management platform can manage and maintain devices in a
centralized manner at any place, greatly reducing network deployment and O&M costs.
« Aftera cloud AP is deployed, the network administrator does not need to go to the site
for cloud AP software commissioning. After power-on, the cloud AP automatically
connects to the specified cloud management platform to load system files such as the
configuration file, software package, and patch file. In this manner, the cloud AP can go
online with zero touch configuration. The network administrator can deliver
configurations
 
to the cloud APs through the cloud management platform at anytime and
anywhere, facilitating batch service configurations.

@ Next-Generation Campus Network: Intent-
© ©
ef iMaster NcE
NMS O&M Zone
Core Layer
Aggregation Layer
Access Layer
— _ iStack/CSS Link
Page 69 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Driven Campus (Medium- and Large-Sized)
Architecture Characteristics
« iMaster NCE manages and configures APs in a unified
manner and provides various functions. By further
integrating with wired networks and leveraging Big Data
and Al technologies, this architecture implements
simplified, intelligent, and secure campus networks.
« Applicable scope: medium- and large-sized enterprises

[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: eg Wha” 7; - wt; >; i " x CRALE C/ * -; soperne em Pe... a ee > < ee; Wie S 4) / > atcew kg >.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: sae ee ae eh: ays 6) ~~ A.B. 1308 es yy Ae rm 2; SD — <——=; Q M5) 4 UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI; MCCS DI PERUGIA. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: Fondamenti di Internet; WLAN Overview; Page 0 Prof. Gianluca Reali. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: ) Foreword; e¢ Wired LANs are expensive and lack mobility. The increasing demand for portability and; mobility requires wireless local area network (WLAN) technologies.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: ¢ WLAN is now the most cost-efficient and convenient network access mode.; ¢ This course introduces the development of WLAN in different phases, concepts related; to WLAN technologies, implementation and basic configurations of common WLAN; networking architectures, and WLAN development trends.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: Page 1 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: or ) Objectives; ¢ Oncompletion of this course, you will be able to:; « Understand basic concepts of WLAN and the history of the 802.11 protocol family.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: « Learn about different WLAN devices.; e Distinguish between different WLAN networking architectures.; e Understand the WLAN working process.; « Complete basic WLAN configurations.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: Contents; 1. WLAN Overview; 2. Basic Concepts of WLAN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: 3. WLAN Fundamentals; 4. WLAN Configuration Implementation; 5. Next-Generation WLAN Solutions. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: Page 3 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: Introduction to WLAN; ¢ Awireless local area network (WLAN) is constructed using wireless technologies. It uses high-frequency (2.4 GHz or 5; GHz) signals such as radio waves, lasers, and infrared rays to replace the traditional media used for transmission on a; wired LAN.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: ¢« WLAN technology allows users to easily access a wireless network and move around within the coverage of the wireless; network.; & Router; (29); Wired ve Wireless (yp) Access; Network aK Switch Network - . Radio. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: y Ye ZZ signals; Switch LJ; LJ >; ry CJ; Ce CS !; PC; Page 4 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: IEEE 802.11, WLAN and Wi-Fi; e |EEE 802.11 suites are standards for WLANs which are definded WLAN; by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering (IEEE). [eee |; = AA ES Alive anew fawmcscad lecys coe mire: Gack seq eee viele ew Wi-Fi. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: _ VVITET PATITGAIIVO Wao IVETOU My a yivupy MI ed bl THGAPIUraVelurleolo IEEE 802 11; and the logo "Wi-Fi" was created. The Wi-Fi standards are | Tease |; « JEEE 802.11 Standards and Wi-Fi Generations; i hae: 2.4GHz 2.4GHz 2.4GHz, 5GHz 2.4GHz & 5GHz 5GHz 5GHz 2.4GHz & 5GHz; an. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: Throughput 2Mbit/s 11Mbit/s 54Mbit/s 300Mbit/s 1300Mbit/s 6.9Gbit/s 9.6Gbit/s; Standard | seyyh 802.11b 802.11a, 802.11g 802.11n 802.11ac wave1 802.11ac wave2 802.11ax; Wi-Fi Wi-Fi 1 Wi-Fi 2 Wi-Fi 3 Wi-Fi 4 Wi-Fi 5 Wi-Fi 6; >; Released In 1997 1999 2003 2009 2013 2015 2018; Page 5 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: Wi-Fi Development Trends in Office Scenarios; Early 1990s Late 1990s Today. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: H H f eS 4K; ' ' J H Cwi-i); ! ' H VR/AR ves; ce All-wireless era; H H BYOD H a ;; H H i Diversified terminals:; = f ' ; : ' + Refined online service. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: = Mobile phone, tablet, and Ultrabook: VINAIRviceo.; Laptop: + Video, voice, and data services; + Voice and data services + Alarge number of real-time services; * 802.11b/a/g * 802.11n -> 802.11ac; Desktop computer:; * Data service WibeIESS neiworks as a Wired and wireless integration All-wireless office, wireless-centric; supplement to wired networks; Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: Contents; 1. WLAN Overview; 2. Basic Concepts of WLAN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: 3. WLAN Fundamentals; 4. WLAN Configuration Implementation; 5. Next-Generation WLAN Solutions. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: Page 7 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: Wired Network Wireless Network; WLAN Devices; Home : Enterprise; PoE Switch. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: i — i a Se SHITE Network; - 5use vees eat; = = eo; Wireless Router aaa ae & ea ore TTT eee MMT TEE. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: en mu en AC (Access Controller); ii wiih; AP (Access Point); Page 8 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: Basic WLAN Networking Architecture. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: <> ates; Campers Egress Gateway; Campus; Wired Network Egiess Gateway Network; Ethernet Protocols Campus; Network; S/o \ AC; g Q; \2 ia; | > ey. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: cp) @) cp) ( r; Fat AP 5) (cp) Fit AP; . <= Ss & Radio signal Ss SJ > Radio signal; Wireless Network — a ~— . — wa ~~ *; 802.11 Protocols 0 Cy i 0 on 0 i) i 0 can; Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: Agile Distributed Architecture. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: Architecture Characteristics; * The agile distributed architecture divides an AP into a central AP; and remote units (RUs). The central AP can manage multiple; Central AP |e ==! Central AP [eo ==); entra entra RUs, which provides good coverage and reduces costs. RUs can; / . P 7 be used in the Fat AP, AC + Fit AP, and cloud management; RU RU; “Hoon Goon; e < a es . a - < e Annlication scone: densely distributed rooms. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: Room1 | Room2 / Room3 Room N Room1  Room2 | Room3 Room N; Page 10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: Transfer:. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: | — ai A * Control And Provisioning of Wireless Access; ser data; — G \ —S Campus Points (CAPWAP): defines how to manage and; (re oN =a Network configure APs. That is, an AC manages and controls; cM; AP1 5) Zoo APs in a centralized manner through CAPWAP tunnels.; sur? Sf; 2 a; oP «3; AP2 KF) & ;; © CAPWAP Tunnel Functions; eo )). Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: _— ct a ¢ Maintains the running status of the AC and APs.; LJ =] * Allows the AC to manage APs and deliver service; STA LJ configurations to the APs.; * Allows APs to exchange data sent by STAs with the AC; STA through CAPWAP tunnels when the tunnel forwarding; mode is used.; Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: Basic Concepts D> wireanetwork Wireless Network; AP-AC Networking; ¢ The AP-AC networking modes are classified into Layer 2 networking and Layer 3 networking.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: * Layer 2 networking: APs are * Layer 3 networking: APs are; A connected to an AC directly or A connected to an AC across a; Cc across a Layer 2 network. Cc Layer 3 network.; * The Layer 2 networking * In the actual networking, an AC; Layer 2 features quick deployment. It is Layer 3 can connect to dozens or even; fe Network \ applicable to simple or J aaicaaal \ hundreds of APs, which is. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: LSTIIPUIALy HOCUWUIAIIY VU TUL USUAHY VVITIVICA. HT TIUOl Uadoto,; (yp) ” (yp) large networking. (cy) = (cp) the Layer 3 networking is used; AP1 APn AP1 APn on a large network.; Page 12 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: Basic Concepts D> wireanetwork Wireless Network; AC Connection Mode; ¢ ACs can be connected in in-path or off-path mode.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: * In the off-path networking, the; Core * In the in-path networking, the Sore; Network Network AC connects to the network; APs, AC, and core network are; between APs and the core; connected in a chain. All data | .; ; A network, but does not directly; lestined for the core layer; A destined for th lay; C fa ——- IP connect to APs.; asses throu e AC.; Q g ° this netw ne the AC al Network * In this networking, the AC is; Ry IP a» MTHS: NEWOFKINg, Une also / “oO /Q canneacted tn APRe in nffenath. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: ~/ Network \“¥ functions as an aggregation NN LY rs; SX, < ggreg ope e mode, the service data of APs; switch to forward and process iS) ;; reaches the uplink network; a data traffic and management oo . .; ; without passing through the; AP1 APn _ traffic of APs. AP1 APn AG; Page 13 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: Wireless Communications System; e In a wireless communications system, information may be an image, a text, a sound, or the like. The; transmit device first applies source coding to convert information into digital signals that allow for circuit; ssseat eee | Drea a ee ae: seeee all waGerdneer aes aa neater: bb becca Succ: peuecal Gaeeeeemeesuremas «beacs poeta: sac bese wc! waeosceda eu “eee moeweoeltaad wacker aece. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: VAIVUIALIVITT ATI VIVES, ALI UPOrr THI MY Te allo VI VHA) GUMMY ALM PIVOTAL TT.; Modulation Demodulation Decoding Sink; media). Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: Transmit device Receive device; Wireless Communications System; Page 14 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: Radio Wave; e A radio wave is an electromagnetic wave whose frequency is between 3 Hz and about 300 GHz. Radio; technology converts sound signals or other signals and transmits them by using radio waves.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: e WLAN technology enables transmission of information by radio waves over the air. Currently, the WLAN; uses the following frequency bands:; ° 2.4 GHz frequency band (2.4—2.4835 GHz); ° 5 GHz frequency band (5.15-5.35 GHz, 5.725-5.85 GHz; 2.4 GHz frequency band 5 GHz frequency band; IEEE 802. 11b/g/n/ax IEEE 802. 11a/n/ac/ax; e Radio wave cnectriim:. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: ee; Earomety Super low Ultralow Very low Low Intermediate High Very high Ultrahigh | Super high Tn; ‘ ow frequency frequency frequency frequency frequency — frequency —frequency | cau | rus 9); remeny: (SLF) (ULF) (VLF) (LF) (IF) (HF) (VHF) (UHF) (SHF) pele; (ELF) (EHF); 3 30 300 3 30 300 3 30 300 3 30 300 iitared iste; light, ultraviolet; Y Y Y Y light, and ray; Hz kHz MHz GHz; Page 15 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: a) Faeeaeais } eaten > wees 4; e Achannel transmits information, and a radio channel is a radio wave in space. Given that radio waves are; ubiquitous, the random use of spectrum resources will cause endless interference issues. Therefore, in; “ep acme ane wlacitawiecsm: iewme vate belies Ghecacaaswmemeamcs Lateran duces bees cen (enum ceeee aac oceeielle saccsued< ueleroe: wonuey pense lew:. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: GUMMY TIE LEIS UO AANIS TOUS YyY NALIN, WIIG Oo VUETITIMIENGGAUUIT VIVES TIM Alo AUVUUIALOly; divide the frequency ranges. Each frequency range is a channel.; 2.4 GHz Frequency Band 5 GHz Frequency Band; 1 3 5 7 9 #11 «13 5170 5330 5490 Weather 5710 5735 5835; 2412, 2422 2452 2442 2482, 2462 2.472 a ue mem ls a i a; IEEE chamellD'g 232g | SS8SS8aRSse 88558; 2.417 | 2.427 | 2.437 | 2.447 | 2.457 vil 2.484 owt: PAAAAAAA AAAAAAATARA AnAAA; LOPS NSN 2.442: center frequency 20MHz {Vk fv 7) =z |:. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: l ee y Y \ yyy \ \ \ Vivvo \ (GHz) - 160 MHz —————— a bo i; * The 2.4 GHz frequency band is divided into 14 channels with contiguous 60220 a i i oe i; overlapping or non-overlapping relationships, each with a ee cng : ii; bandwidth of 20 MHz. : : [| rr Sa a; 2 Overlapping channels, such as channels 1 and 2, interfere with each other. 7; ° Non-overlapping channels, such as channels 1 and 6, do not interfere with + The 5 GHz frequency band has richer spectrum resources. In addition to 20; each other. MHz channels, APs working on the 5 GHz frequency band support 40 MHz,; 80 MHz, and higher-bandwidth channels.; Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: Basic Concepts Wired Network > wees 4; BSS/SSIDIBSSID; e Basic service set (BSS):; _ - o An area covered bv an AP.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: viscover guest BR ‘; .; LJ e STAsina BSS can communicate with each other.; e Basic service set identifier (BSSID):; A (cy) SSID: ° An identifier of a WLAN, which is represented by the; Discover guest P Besih; Doeiio tesa) AP's MAC address.; e; LJ ~~ e Service set identifier (SSID):. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: ° An identifier of a WLAN, which is represented by a; Discover guest string of characters.; LJ « S§SIDs can replace BSSIDs to help users identify; different WLANs.; Page 17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: e In the early stage, APs support only one BSS. If; multiple BSSs are deployed in a space, we must; Discover guest Se eT es eS Fr a ae. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: and internal AlOY MOPIVY TIMMINIG FAT 9, VWINGIT THIVreadotvo YVUotlo; LJ en and occupies channel resources. To resolve this; earth problem, APs now support creation of multiple; 00€0.fc45.24a0 virtual access points (VAPs).; . a GY; Discover guest .; and internal P ° VAP:; & = BSS2: VAP2; L ‘SSID: ° Aphysical AP can be virtualized into multiple VAPs,. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: 0060 1645-249 each of which provides the same functions as the; Discover guest ;; and internal pinysical wife; LJ ° Each VAP corresponds to one BSS. In this way, one; AP may provide multiple BSSs that can have different; SSIDs specified.; Page 18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: a) Basic Concepts Wired Network > wrcese; e The coverage of a BSS is limited. An extended. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: ESS service set (ESS) can be used to expand the; a ae coverage. When a STA moves from one BSS to; (cy) BSSID: «p) BSSID:; _— 00e0.fc45.24a0 nee 00e0.fc45.3100 another BSS, an ESS ensures that the STA does; e@ e; = CJ = | not sense the change of the SSID.; Lo] SSID: huawei | SSID: huawei * ESS:. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: © A larger-scale virtual BSs that consists of multiple; BSSs with the same SSID.; Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: Contents; 1. WLAN Overview; 2. Basic Concepts of WLAN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: 3. WLAN Fundamentals; 4. WLAN Configuration Implementation; 5. Next-Generation WLAN Solutions. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: Page 20 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: WLAN Working Process Overview. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: “ A; 4 3 AnAP obtains an IP address, discovers an AC,; and sets up a connection with the AC.; DHCP Server AC @  WLANservice configuration delivery; i A; =i The AC delivers WLAN service configurations to the AP.; © STAaccess; —_— STAs find the SSID transmitted by the AP, connect to. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: the network, and go online.; AP AP @ WLANservice data forwarding; eee The WLAN starts to forward service data.; bY C o; Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.23] Labels: WLAN Working Process: Step 1; Network. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.23] Labels: i —; +=; The AC can manage and control Fit APs in a centralized; manner and deliver services only after they go online. The; DHCP Server AC procedure is as follows:; 1. AnAP obtains an IP address.; i A; =i 2. The AP discovers the AC and establishes a CAPWAP tunnel; with it.; 3. AP access control; 4. AP upgrade; —_— 5. CAPWAP tunnel maintenance. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.23] Labels: |; @ > WLANservice configuration delivery; AP AP; —_ @  STAaccess; DY SY i e; CI Cc] 0 @~  WLANservice data forwarding; Page 22 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.24] Labels: APs Obtain IP Addresses; ¢ AnAP can communicate with an AC only after obtaining an IP address.; *) IP address allocation. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.24] Labels: aa; @ « AnAP can obtain an |P address in either of the following modes:; ° Static mode: A user logs in to the AP and configures its IP address.; ° DHCP mode: The AP serves as a DHCP client and requests an IP address; from a DHCP server.; © « Typical solutions:; ° Deploy a dedicated DHCP server to assign IP addresses to APs.; ° Configure the AC to assign IP addresses to APs.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.24] Labels: sb) ° Use a device on the network, such as a core switch, to assign IP addresses to; APs.; Page 23 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.25] Labels: DHCP IP Address Allocation; *) a ress allocation on wp _ ene. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.25] Labels: (p; @ DHCP DHCP Discover (broadcast); Server AC Discover DHCP servers on the network; ——— _—*=:; Ez ee A Ei] DHCP Offer (unicast); oe = N » Select an available IP address from the; 0) % \ address pool and respond to the AP; DHCP packet } \ ST; } 2 \ DHCP Request (broadcast); Fa fee DHCP packet Notify the DHCP server of the IP address selected. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.25] Labels: sb) AP upgrade oe ae >; (Optional) a“ Sos, DHCP Ack (unicast); Acknowledge address allocation; eco; @ CAPWAP; tunnel maintenance; Page 24 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.26] Labels: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment; ¢ The AC manages and controls APs in a centralized manner through; @ CAPWAP tunnels. A A. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.26] Labels: Step 1: AC Discovery; @ CAPWAP - 7 ;; tunnel establishment * AnAP sends a Discovery Request packet to find an available AC Iscovery Keques ,; * APs can discover an AC in either of the following ways: Di R; * Static: AC IP address list preconfigured on the APs vey Bes pense; 0) AP access control 2 Dynamic: DHCP, DNS, and broadcast; | Step 2: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.26] Labels: sb) AP upgrade al; (Optional) + APs associate with the AC and establish CAPWAP tunnels; including data tunnels and control; * Data tunnel: transmits service data packets from APs to the AC; © CAPWAP for centralized forwarding.; tunnelimaintenance = Control tunnel: transmits control packets between the AC and; APs.; Page 25 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.27] Labels: Step 1: APs Dynamically Discover the AC; Q veer temin; rr i (|. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.27] Labels: A DHCP server A; CAPWAP Layer 2 Campus E Layer 3 Campus A; @ tunnel Network Network =e; establishment; DHCP Discover t; —_—_sSE; DHCP Offer |; 0) AP access control (option 43) ;; | Broadcast query; DHCP Request ;; $<; ao DHCP Ack 1. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.27] Labels: AP upgrade option 43; a] (Optional) 4 pte (cp); Discovery Request A; "=n; Discovery Response P; @ CAPWAP —; tunnel maintenance; Page 26 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.28] Labels: Step 2: CAPWAP Tunnel Establishment; *) IP address allocation. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.28] Labels: sss...; CAPWAP * APs associate with the AC and establish CAPVWAP; DHCP; ® tunnel establishment Server AC tunnels, including data tunnels and control tunnels.; i A =i ° Data tunnel: transmits service data packets from APs to the; NTS AC for centralized forwarding. Datagram Transport Layer; 0) ope 8 Security (DTLS) encryption can be enabled over the data; 4 » tunnel to ensure security of CAPWAP data packets.; 2 1) Subsequently, CAPWAP data packets will be encrypted and; > decrypted using DTLS.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.28] Labels: sb) * Control tunnel: transmits control packets between the AC and; APs. DTLS encryption can be enabled over the control tunnel; eco to ensure security of CAPWAP control packets. Subsequently,; CAPWAP control packets will be encrypted and decrypted; © using DTLS.; Page 27 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.29] Labels: Sean STAAccess Data Forwarding; AP Access Control; *) IP address allocation. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.29] Labels: AP Access Control o ny; @ CAPWAP; tunnel establishment . . .; + After discovering and AC, the AP sends a Join; Request packet to the AC. The AC then Discovery Request; © AP'Sccessieontral determines whether to allow the AP access Discovery Response; sends a Join Response packet to the AP. Join Request; —————; | + The AC supports three AP authentication modes: _ Join Response. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.29] Labels: sb) MAC address authentication, SN authentication, | |; and non-authentication.; Page 28 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.30] Labels: Sean STAAccess Data Forwarding; *) IP address allocation; ee 7 7. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.30] Labels: @ CAPWAP + The AP determines whether its system software; tunnel establishment; version is the same as that specified on the AC Discovery Request; according to parameters in the received Join ;; Discovery Response; 0) AP access control Response packet. If they are different, the AP; sends an Image Data Request packet to request Join Request; the software package and then upgrades its Join Response. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.30] Labels:  ] AP upgrade software version INAC, FIP, or SF ITP mode. Image Data Request; (Optional) —E——————; + After the software version is updated, the AP Image Data Response; —; restarts and repeats steps 1 to 3.; Page 29 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.31] Labels: CAPWAP Tunnel Maintenance; A A; *) IP address allocation Gy Ei; Discovery Request. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.31] Labels: @ CAPWAP; tunnel establishment + Data tunnel maintenance: Join Request; ° The AP and AC exchange Keepalive packets to Join Response; 2) AP 'accesscontiol detect the data tunnel connectivity. age DatEIRERUESt; + Control tunnel maintenance:; Image Data Response; ° The AP and AC exchange Echo packets to; J Keaanaliva. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.31] Labels: sb) detect the control tunnel connectivity. | Data tunnel; Keepalive; —————_—_; Echo Request; —————— Control tunnel; © CAPWAP; tunnel maintenance Echo Response; Page 30 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.32] Labels: Sean STAAccess Data Forwarding; Preconfigurations on the AC for APs to Go Online; COnnaureinetworkiconnectivit _-» * Configure DHCP servers to assign IP addresses to APs and STAs. The AC can function as a DHCP server.; 9 y + Configure network connectivity between APs and the DHCP server, and between APs and the AC.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.32] Labels: CreninantAPlaratl _- + Each AP will be added and can be added to only one AP group. In most cases, we configure an AP group to; group provide the same configurations for multiple APs.; Configure the country code on the AC __-» Acountry code identifies the country in which the APs are deployed. Country codes regulate differentAP radio; (regulatory domain profile) attributes, including the transmit power and supported channels.; Configure a source interface or address _--» Specify a unique source IP address or source interface on each AC. APs must learn the specified source IP; (for establishing CAPWAP tunnels with APs) address or the IP address of the source interface to communicate with the AC and establish CAPWAP tunnels.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.32] Labels: ; ; ; In automatic upgrade mode, an AP checks whether its version is the same as that configured on the AC, SFTP; (Optional) Configure the automatic AP upgrade +---» server, or FTP server when going online. If the two versions are different, the AP upgrades its version, restarts, and; goes online again. If the two versions are the same, the AP does not upgrade its version.; AGnIAFS ---> Youcan add APs by importing them in offline mode, automatic discovery, and manual confirmation; (configure the AP authentication mode) yimp 9 , uh .; Page 31 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.33] Labels: WLAN Working Process: Step 2. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.33] Labels: Maey; 2 >; Configuration Update Request @ AP onboarding; DHCP Server AC e WLAN service configuration delivery; E U “i aan. =| The AC sends a Configuration Update Request to an AP. If the; f @ contauation AC receives a Configuration Update Response from the AP, the; — x, Update Response AC then delivers service configuration to the AP.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.33] Labels: ap ~~ @  STAaccess; ase @  WLANservice data forwarding; Page 32 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.34] Labels: WLAN Profiles; e Various profiles are designed based on different functions and features of WLAN networks to help users; configure and maintain functions of WLAN networks. These profiles are called WLAN profiles.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.34] Labels: Bound to regulatory domain le Aregulatory domain profile provides configurations of country code,; profile calibration channel, and calibration bandwidth for an AP.; Bound to . . * Radio profiles are used to optimize radio parameters, and control the; Radio profile aan . ths :; in-service channel switching function.; Bound to . * Configure parameters in the VAP profile and reference the SSID profile,; AP or VAP profile aig : . _— ‘ :; AP group security profile, and authentication profile.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.34] Labels: Bound to; Other profiles --> *« AP System Profile, Location Profile, WIDS Profile, Mesh Profile and etc.; Configure radio col? Configure the bandwidth, channel, antenna gain, transmit power,; parameters coverage distance, and operating frequency band of a specified radio.; Page 33 = Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.35] Labels: ) AP Onboarding STAAccess Data Forwarding; * An SSID specifies a wireless network. When you search for available; Bound to Create an _-sl wireless networks on a STA, the displayed wireless network names are; | PGR oc pete. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.35] Labels: Voll PIVIle volVS.; * An SSID profile is used to configure the SSID name of a WLAN.; Bound to Create a yl? You can configure WLAN security policies to authenticate STAs and; security profile encrypt user packets, protecting the security of the WLAN and users.; VAP Profile; Configure the data lhe Control packets (management packets) and data packets are; forwarding mode transmitted on a WLAN.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.35] Labels: | Configure service aw? Layer 2 data packets delivered from the VAP to an AP carry the service; VLANs VLAN IDs.; Page 34 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.36] Labels: AP Onboarding aa D> starccess 9 Data Forwarding; WLAN Working Process: Step 3. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.36] Labels: “ee,; ?sey; a .; @ ~~ AP onboarding; DHCP Server AC @ > WLAN service configuration delivery; i A, =i 3] STA access; STAs can access a WLAN after CAPWAP tunnels are; established.; —_— Ss aa SOREN wen ny! Gu CNR en AN EE RR OE OR Le PONS S cc ESS MMU NC Onn aE hte eR ES A) pooEE Men. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.36] Labels: PES VEN AUS PIUUE SS VUTIDIOlo VMI SIA PIdaove. SUGIHTINIY, HEN; authentication, association, access authentication, DHCP, and; user authentication.; AP AP; eee @ WLAN service data forwarding; Page 35 = Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.37] Labels: e Inactive scanning, a STA periodically searches for nearby wireless networks.; *) Scanning e The STA can send two types of Probe Request frames: probes containing an SSID. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.37] Labels: and probes that do not contain an SSID.; (f) Link authentication Active Scanning by Sending a Probe Request Active Scanning by Sending a Probe Request; Frame Containing an SSID Frame Containing No SSID; 1; eave?; @ Association Probe Request prove nul) 9) AP1; (SSID: huawei) so onse; «)) prove RESP; Probe Response i LJ .; —$—_______.; Access authentication .; >) STA API - STA ~~ ——eE~. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.37] Labels: {ovlU: NUaWel) “(Ssip,etuest SK” APn; ~ Null); 6 * The STA sends a Probe Request containing an * The STA periodically broadcasts a Probe Request; SSID on each channel to search for the AP with the frame that does not contain an SSID on the; same SSID. Only the AP with the same SSID will supported channels. The APs return Probe; cs) respond to the STA. Response frames to notify the STA of the wireless; services they can provide.; Page 36 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.38] Labels: WLAN Security Protocols; e As WLAN technologies use radio signals to transmit service data, service data can; ) be easily intercepted or tampered with by attackers when being transmitted on open; aces law: pebocwemben: | wewcacemeses Sd Po Mel cocewescrerer Sees SGeeeciecwe! abc Uae lieicweues tacweos: seul ocd euniie sae. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.38] Labels: WHCIG OS VHGA. LOULITYy VV ESEAIN SeUUIILyY Io VIUUIAl bY MUMMY Sale AM CHOULIVe; @© Link authentication wireless networks.; ¢ Common security policy:; @ Association Link A; . : in ccess : —; Becurtiy Falicy Authentication Authentication Bate Ener pean; 0) Access‘auihentication Open system N/A No encryption or WEP Insecure policy; WEP. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.38] Labels: onared-key Fs; ‘Authentication N/A WEP Insecure policy; 6 WPA/WPA2- Amore secure policy, applicable; 802.1X Open system 802.1X (EAP) TKIP or CCMP to large enterprises; More secure policy, applicable to; @ WPA/WPA2-PSK Open system PSK TKIP or CCMP small- and medium-sized; enterprises or household users; Page 37 = Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.39] Labels: ¢ To ensure wireless link security, an AP needs to authenticate STAs that attempt to access the AP.; ) Scanning ¢ IEEE 802.11 defines two authentication modes: open system authentication and shared key authentication.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.39] Labels: ) Linkaumenticaton Open System Authentication Shared Key Authentication; @ Association Authentication Request Authentication Request >; ee Authentication Response; LJ Authentication Response 5) (Challenge); —— ————; STA AP Authentication Response; 0) Access authentication (Encrypted Challenge); cee nnnmnmmiiiie. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.39] Labels: Authentication Response.; (Success); 6 * caloatoneuies wat; + Open system authentication requires no authentication, + Shared key authentication requires that the STA and AP; allowing any STA to be successfully authenticated. have the same shared key preconfigured. The AP checks; whether a STA has the same shared key to determine the; @ authentication result. If the STA has the same shared key as; the AP, the STA is authenticated. Otherwise, STA; authentication fails.; Page 38 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.40] Labels: Association; e After link authentication is complete, a STA initiates link service negotiation using; ) Scanning Association packets.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.40] Labels: e The STA association process is actually a link service negotiation process, during; which the supported rate, channel, and the like are negotiated.; @ Association STA AP AG; © 1. Association Request; Ee; 2. Association Request. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.40] Labels: el; 3. Association Response; 6 - —_—_—_—_———.; 4. Association Response; ——______; Page 39 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.41] Labels: Access Authentication; e User access authentication differentiates users and controls access rights of users.; ) Scanning Compared with link authentication, access authentication is more secure.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.41] Labels: e Major access authentication modes include PSK authentication and 802.1X; authentication.; Al AP 5); fe); —_; © Access authentication ~~”,. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.41] Labels: Access authentication is performed on; STA LJ the wireless-side interface, allowing; 6 STAs to send data over wireless links.; Page 40 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.42] Labels: AP Onboarding aa D> starccess 9 Data Forwarding; STA Address Allocation; e The prerequisite for APs and STAs to go online properly is that they have obtained; ) Scanning IP addresses.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.42] Labels: e If STAs obtain IP addresses through DHCP, the AC or aggregation switch can; function as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to the STAs. In most cases, the; aggregation switch is used as the DHCP server.; DHCP Server; ® STA A (Aggregation Switch); (:))) IP es; LJ ((- (yp Network; L?) | Dd ae > Be ee |. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.42] Labels: Milwr WIovVUVer; Pg; DHCP Request; a _'’”",; © User authentication Ce; Page 41 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.43] Labels: User Authentication; e User authentication is an end-to-end security architecture, supporting 802.1X, MAC; i) Scanning address, and Portal authentication modes.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.43] Labels: Link authentication Portal Authentication =<“; ia; « Portal authentication is also known e@; @ Association as web authentication. Portal; authentication websites are Huawei-Guest; referred to as web portals. Just for Guest; 0) Access authentication ¢ To access the Internet, users must ra | | Romaine |; he aithenticated on weh nortale +86 Phone Number. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.43] Labels: Mieiitemontes, | WmwaenomnnaDeee, | howe Nik Conc Marre eran amoaieee unwars Ban Teveens Senwettawnsanes | Qf iseienn-xGrenrenen me nen; The users can access network i; 6 pace resources only after successful; authentication.; © User authentication; Page 42 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.44] Labels: WLAN Working Process: Step 4. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.44] Labels: +3; Z @_~ AP onboarding; DEICP Server ne @ > WLANservice configuration delivery; FI is > =i @) STAaccess; (4) WLAN service data forwarding; ym. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.44] Labels: a Contro! packets (management packets) and data packets are; AP AP transmitted over CAPWAP tunnels.; * Control packets are forwarded through the CAPWAP; eee control tunnel.; * a « User data packets can be forwarded in tunnel forwarding; L_)} LJ UJ (centralized forwarding) or direct forwarding (local; forwarding) mode.; Page 43 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.45] Labels: AP Onboarding aa STAAccess; Data Forwarding Mode; Tunnel Forwarding Direct Forwarding; CAPWAP tunnel EG | CAPWAP tunnel Eg; Service data traffic Service data traffic t. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.45] Labels: —=> ———; Management traffic Management traffic; qo ay. \ AC piace AC; OP és; (i ¢; 7 4; vA 4; f f; I I; 1 1; \ YN; SS N; “. SN.; AP SAP AP AP. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.45] Labels: * In tunnel forwarding mode, APs encapsulate user data packets * In direct forwarding mode, an AP directly forwards user data; over a CAPWAP data tunnel and send them to an AC. The AC packets to an upper-layer network without encapsulating them; then forwards these packets to an upper-layer network. over a CAPWAP data tunnel.; Page 44 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.46] Labels: Contents; 1. WLAN Overview; 2. Basic Concepts of WLAN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.46] Labels: 3. WLAN Fundamentals; 4. WLAN Configuration Implementation; 5. Next-Generation WLAN Solutions. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.46] Labels: Page 45 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.47] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands: =; Configuring an AP to Go Online (1); 1. Configure the AC as a DHCP server and configure the Option 43 field.; [AC-ip-pool-pool1] option code [ sub-option sub-code | { ascii ascii-string | hex hex-string | cipher cipher-string |; ip-address jp-address. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.47] Labels: Configure the user-defined option that a DHCP server assigns to a DHCP client.; 2. Create a regulatory domain profile and configure the country code.; [AC] wlan; [AC-wlan-view]; Enter the WLAN view.; [AC -wlan-viaw] raqulatarv—damain_enrofila name nrofila-_namea. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.47] Labels: nnn NE EE; [AC-wlan-regulate-domain-profile-name]; Create a regulatory domain profile and enter the regulatory domain profile view, or enter the view of an existing; regulatory domain profile.; [AC-wlan-regulate-domain-profile-name] country-code country-code; Configure the country code.; Page 46 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.48] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring an AP to Go Online (2); [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name; [AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name]. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.48] Labels: eae eh eta, eel ee nas ~ an ~ Reiandl Wie; [AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name] regulatory-domain-profile profile-name; Bind the regulatory domain profile to an AP or AP group.; 3. Configure a source interface or address.; [AC] capwap source interface { loopback /oopback-number | vilanif vian-id }; Specify a source interface on the AC for establishing CAPWAP tunnels with APs.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.48] Labels: [AC] capwap source ip-address /p-address; Configure the source IP address on the AC.; Page 47 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.49] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring an AP to Go Online (3); 4. Add APs in offline mode.; [AC-wlan-view] ap auth-mode { mac-auth | sn-auth }. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.49] Labels: vet the AF authentication mode to WVIAC aaaress or oN authentication. by default, MAC address authentication Is; used.; [AC-wlan-view] ap-id ap-id [ [ type-id type-id | ap-type ap-type ] { ap-mac ap-mac | ap-sn ap-sn | ap-mac ap-mac; ap-sn ap-sn } ]; [AC-wlan-ap-ap-id] ap-name ap-name; Manually add an AP in offline mode or enter the AP view, and configure the name of a single AP.; [AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.49] Labels: LATEST ERTIES OR SSE; Add the AP to an AP group.; 5. Verify the configuration.; [AC] display ap { all | ap-group ap-group }}; Check AP information.; Page 48 — Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. Alll rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.50] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring Radios (1); 1. Enter the radio view.; [AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0; [AC-wlan-ap-0O] radio radio-id. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.50] Labels: [AC-wlan-radio-0]; 2. Configure the working bandwidth and channel for a radio.; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] channel { 20mhz | 40mhz-minus | 40mhz-plus | 80mhz | 160mhz } channe/; Warning: This action may cause service interruption. Continue?[Y/Nly; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] channel 80+80mhz channel1 channel2; Warning: This action may cause service interruption. Continue?[Y/Nly. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.50] Labels: Configure the working bandwidth and channel for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.; 3. Configure the antenna gain.; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] antenna-gain antenna-gain; Configure the antenna gain for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.; Page 49 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.51] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands: —=; Configuring Radios (2); 4. Configure the transmit power for a radio.; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] eirp eirp. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.51] Labels: Configure the transmit power for all APs In an AF group or for a specified radio of a single AP.; 5. Configure the radio coverage distance.; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] coverage distance distance; Configure the radio coverage distance for all APs in an AP group or for a specified radio of a single AP.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.51] Labels: Ve VUMTITYUIe UIE UNSCTaliily HeQuellyy Vl a laud,; [AC-wlan-radio-0/0] frequency { 2.4g | 5g }; Page 50 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.52] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring Radios (3); 7. Create a radio profile.; [AC-wlan-view] radio-2g-profile name profile-name. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.52] Labels: Create a 2G radio profile and enter the 2G radio profile view, or enter the view of an existing 2G radio profile.; 8. Bind the radio profile.; [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name; [AC-wlan-ap-group-group-name] radio-2g-profile profile-name radio { radio-id | all }; Bind the specified 2G radio profile to the 2G radio in the AP group.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.52] Labels: Page 51 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.53] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring VAPs (1); 1. Create a VAP profile.; [AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name profile-name; [AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-namel. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.53] Labels: Create a VAP profile and enter the VAP profile view, or enter the view of an existing VAP profile.; 2. Configure the data forwarding mode.; [AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] forward-mode { direct-forward | tunnel }; Set the data forwarding mode in the VAP profile to direct or tunnel.; 3. Configure service VLANs.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.53] Labels: [AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] service-vian { vlan-id vian-id | vian-pool pool-name }; Configure service VLANs configured for the VAP.; Page 52 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.54] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring VAPs (2); 4. Configure a security profile.; [AC-wlan-view] security-profile name profile-name; [AC-wlan-sec-prof-profile-namel. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.54] Labels: Create a security profile and enter the security profile view.; By default, security profiles , and are available in the system.; [AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name profile-name; [AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] security-profile profile-name; Bind the security profile to the VAP profile.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.54] Labels: Page 53 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.55] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring VAPs (3); 5. Configure an SSID profile.; [AC-wlan-view] ssid-profile name profile-name; [AC-wlan-ssid-prof-profile-namel]l. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.55] Labels: Create an SSID profile and enter the SSID profile view, or enter the view of an existing SSID profile.; By default, the system provides the SSID profile L; [AC-wlan-ssid-prof-profile-name] ssid ssid; Configure an SSID for the SSID profile.; By default, the SSID is configured in an SSID profile.; [AC-wlan-view] van-pnrofile name profile-name. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.55] Labels: [AC-wlan-vap-prof-profile-name] ssid-profile profile-name; Bind the SSID profile to the VAP profile.; Page 54 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.56] Labels: Basic WLAN Configuration Commands:; Configuring VAPs (4); 6. Bind the VAP profile.; [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name group-name; [AC-wlan-ap-aroup-aroup-namel]l vap-profile brofile-name wlan wian-id radio { radio-id | all } | service-vlan {. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.56] Labels: vian-id vian-id | vian-pool pootname }] ; : oe :; Bind the specified VAP profile to radios in an AP group.; 7. Check VAP information.; [AC] display vap { ap-group ap-group-name | { ap-name ap-name | ap-id ap-id }[ radio radio-id | }[; ssid ssid ]; [AC] displav vap { all | ssid ssid }. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.56] Labels: Display information about service VAPs.; Page 55 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.57] Labels: Example for Configuring Layer 2 Tunnel; Forwarding in Off-Path Mode; Powe conten; ] Service VLAN for STAs VLAN 101. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.57] Labels: GE0/0/3 AC The AC functions as a DHCP server to assign IP addresses to APs.; GEO/0/2 DHCP server The aggregation switch S2 functions as a DHCP server to assign IP; $2 addresses to STAs. The default gateway address of STAs is 10.23.101.1.; GE0/0/1 IP address pool for APs 10.23.100.2-10.23.100.254/24; VLANIF 101 | GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100 IP address pool for STAs 10.23.101.2-10.23.101.254/24; 10.23.101.1/24 10.23.100.1/24 IPRduiSSs OF INETAG'S aa; GE0/0/2 source interface cee; Name: ap-group1; $1 AP group Referenced profiles: VAP profile wlan-net and regulatory domain profile; GEO0/0/1 Regulatory domain profile Names default; Country code: CN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.57] Labels: Name: wlan-net; AP SsiP profile SSID name: wlan-net; Name: wlan-net; e Security profile Security policy: WRA-WPA2+PSK+AES; — Password: a1234567; — e Name: wlan-net; Forwarding mode: tunnel forwarding; STA LJ 0) VAP profile Service VLAN: VLAN 101; Referenced profiles: SSID profile wlan-net and security profile wlan-net; Page 56 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.58] Labels: AP Onboarding WLAN Services; Configuring Network Connectivity; 1. Create VLANs and interfaces on S1, S2, and AC.; E> 2. Configure DHCP servers to assign IP addresses to APs; | Ped =e Vise Fae 8 art and STAs.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.58] Labels: er aioe # Configure VLANIF 100 on the AC to assign IP address to APs.; 3 GE0/0/2; AC] dh bl; VLANIF 101 GE0/0/1 Ei] [AC] dhcp enable; 10.23.101.1/24 GEO0/0/1 VLANIF 100 [AC] interface vlanif 100; 10.23.100.1/24 : :; GEO/0/2 [AC-Vlanif100] ip address 10.23.100.1 24; [AC-Vlanif100] dhcp select interface; s1; # Configure VLANIF 101 on S2 to assign IP addresses to STAs and; | GEO/O/ specify 10.23.101.1 as the default gateway address of the STAs.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.58] Labels: ap (p) [$2] dhcp enable; [S2] interface vlanif 101; & [S2-Vlanif101] ip address 10.23.101.1 24; a; ny [S2-Vlanif101] dhcp select interface; mf] O; Page 57 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.59] Labels: erty WLAN Services; Configuring APs to Go Online (1); 1. Create an AP group.; [AC] wlan; | RENIN/2 mas [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.59] Labels: Oo uiand [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit; GE0/0/2; $2 2. Create a regulatory domain profile and configure the; NUANIE 101 Groin country code; 10.23.101.1/24 | GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100 wp OEE:; GEO0/0/2 TOPS OGales AC-wlan-view] regulatory-domain-profile name default; = [AC-wlan-regulate-domain-default] country-code cn; [AC-wlan-regulate-domain-default] quit; | GEO/0/1 [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.59] Labels: [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] regulatory-domain-profile default; AP Warning: Modifying the country code will clear channel, power and; antenna gain configurations of the radio and reset the AP. Continu; e; = e?[Y/N]:y; . [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit; STA | a . .; [AC-wlan-view] quit; Page 58 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.60] Labels: erty WLAN Services; Configuring APs to Go Online (2); 3. Configure the AC's source interface.; [AC] capwap source interface vlanif 100; | Ped =e Vise Fae 8 art. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.60] Labels: = — 4. Import an AP in offline mode on the AC.; GE0/0/2; = GEO/0/1; VLANIF 101 AC] wlan; 10.23.101.1/24 | GEO/O/1 VLANIF 100 Be]; 10.23.100.1/24 [AC-wlan-view] ap auth-mode mac-auth; SEO [AC-wlan-view] ap-id 0 ap-mac 60de-4476-e360; $1 [AC-wlan-ap-0] ap-name area_1; | GEO/0/1 Warning: This operation may cause AP reset. Continue? [Y/N]:y; TAC _wilan_an_N] ancaraiin an_arniin4d. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.60] Labels: brs On a ie rs is i. rs Tie; Warning: This operation may cause AP reset. If the country code; AP; changes, it will clear channel, power and antenna gain configurations; & of the radio, Whether to continue? [Y/N]:y; —,; ~ . [AC-wlan-ap-0] quit; mf] 0; Page 59 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.61] Labels: erty WLAN Services; Verifying the AP Onboarding Configuration; e After the AP is powered on, run the display ap all command to check the AP state. If the State field; displays nor, the AP has gone online.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.61] Labels: [AC-wlan-view] display ap all; Total AP information:; nor : normal [1]; Extra information:; P : insufficient power supply; ID MAC Name Group IP Type State STA Uptime —_ Extralnfo. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.61] Labels: 0 60de-4476-e360 area_1 ap-group1 10.23.100.254 AP5030DN 0 10S -; Total: 1; Page 60 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.62] Labels: Configuring WLAN Service Parameters (1); 1. Create security profile wlan-net and configure a security; policy.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.62] Labels: Oo uiand [AC-wlan-view] security-profile name wlan-net; $2 GEO/O/2 [AC-wlan-sec-prof-wlan-net] security wpa-wpa2 psk pass-phrase; VLANIF 101 SFoO/ 41234567 aes; 10.23.101.1/24 GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100; 10.23.100.1/24 [AC-wlan-sec-prof-wlan-net] quit; GE0/0/2; S1 2. Create SSID profile wlan-net and set the SSID name to; | GEO/0/1 wlan-net.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.62] Labels: [AC-wlan-view] ssid-profile name wlan-net; AP [AC-wlan-ssid-prof-wlan-net] ssid wlan-net; [AC-wlan-ssid-prof-wlan-net] quit; &; wv; N; mf] 0; Page 61 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.63] Labels: erty AP Onboarding D> wan services; Configuring WLAN Service Parameters (2); 3. Create VAP profile wlan-net, set the data forwarding mode; E> and service VLAN, and bind the security profile and SSID; l profile to the VAP profile.; Ped =e Vise Fae 8 art. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.63] Labels: ———— mw; GE0/0/2 [AC-wlan-view] vap-profile name wlan-net; VLANIF ict GEO/0/1 [AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] forward-mode tunnel; 10.23.101.1/24 GEO/0/1 VLANIF 100 [AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] service-vian vian-id 101; 10.23.100.1/24 [AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] security-profile wlan-net; GEO0/0/2 [AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] ssid-profile wlan-net; s1 [AC-wlan-vap-prof-wlan-net] quit; | GEO/0/1 4. Bind the VAP profile to the AP group and apply. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.63] Labels: COMMNQGUIPAUOTTS Hl VAT PrOTe WidiIsHet lO Tal U did raulo ft; of the APs in the AP group.; AP; ° [AC-wlan-view] ap-group name ap-group1; a [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] vap-profile wian-net wlan 1 radio 0; y [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] vap-profile wian-net wlan 1 radio 1; STA | a [AC-wlan-ap-group-ap-group1] quit; Page 62 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.64] Labels: erty AP Onboarding D> wan services; Checking VAP Profile Information; e The AC automatically delivers WLAN service configuration to the AP. After the service configuration is; complete, run the display vap ssid wlan-net command. If Status in the command output is displayed as; Caw Ah VR PN beware lace: pi (eeaiacwetee: cl leccteeeceeed saceer: ofc 8 coerce. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.64] Labels: WIN, LEIS VENT Oo TIAVEe MECH SUUYUEOSIUNY VICAleuU VITAL TAU...; [AC-wlan-view] display vap ssid wlan-net; WID: WLAN ID; AP ID APname RflD WID BSSID Status Auth type STA SSID. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.64] Labels: 0 area_1 0 1 60DE-4476-E360 WPA/WPA2-PSK 0 wlan-net; 0 area_1 1] 1] 60DE-4476-E370 WPA/WPA2-PSK 0 wlan-net; Total: 2; Page 63 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.65] Labels: Contents; 1. WLAN Overview; 2. Basic Concepts of WLAN. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.65] Labels: 3. WLAN Fundamentals; 4. WLAN Configuration Implementation; 5. Next-Generation WLAN Solutions. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.65] Labels: Page 64 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.66] Labels: Huawei WLAN Solutions Meet Future Wireless; Network Construction Requirements. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.66] Labels: * 802.11ac Wave 2 protocol, dual-5G radio coverage, and up to 3.46 Gbps wireless access bandwidth; . . + Huaweiis a key contributor to the next-generation 802.11ax standard (Wi-Fi 6) with a single 5 GHz radio; High bandwidth rate of up to 9.6 Gbps; + Roaming and multiple wireless QoS protocols such as Wi-Fi multimedia (WMM) to ensure QoS; + Mainstream authentication and encryption modes, such as WPA, VWPA2, WPAS, and WAPI; High secu rity + Wireless intrusion detection; + Portal and 802.1X authentication, protecting intranet security. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.66] Labels: Ce); ¢ APs support plug-and-play, automatic upgrade, automatic channel selection, dynamic rate and power; adjustment, and load balancing.; Easy deployment * loT APs and APs with built-in high-density antennas, simplifying installation and enabling fast deployment; + APs support cloud management and can work in dual-stack mode to smoothly switch between the cloud and; local management modes.; Page 65 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.67] Labels: Dual Drivers (Technology Advances + Application; Development) Promote the Arrival of the Wi-Fi 6 Era; — ; ane as aS ayy aS ate) _ aves aval. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.67] Labels: 2011 80211In <-> 802.11ae 4 > = 80211ac 802.11ax oe; Wave 1 Wave 2; Wi-Fi standards are October 2018; i-Fi standards a —_ :; _ _ New Wi-Fi namin; upgraded every Wi-Fi 4 WI-FIS WL-FI6 convention ae; four to five years. by the WFA. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.67] Labels: Ld esa) a; — ® = ome = = a; Application / wa Hisuies C7 Video 4K video | Interactive; Social Wireless | ji conferencing conferencing . . VR/AR; networking office cune oe E-classroom 3D diagnosis; Bandwidth per user: 2 Bandwidth per user: 4 to 12 Mbps Bandwidth per user > 50 Mbps; to 4 Mbps Latency < 30 ms a; Latency < 50 ms Latency < 10 ms; Page 66 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.68] Labels: Wi-Fi 6 Vs. Wi-Fi 5; High Bandwidth High Concurrency Rate Low Latency Low Power; Consumption. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.68] Labels: 1024-QAM UL/DL OFDMA OFDMA TWT. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.68] Labels: 8x8 MU-MIMO UL/DL MU-MIMO Spatial Reuse 20 MHz-Only; @ Rate of up to Gbps @ Access of STAs per AP @ Service latency reduced to © Target wakeup time; TWT) mechanism; @ Bandwidth increased by 4 times © Number of concurrent users @ Average latency reduced by ¢ ); , an ; @ STA power; increased by umes consumption reduced; by; Page 67 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.69] Labels: Next-Generation Campus Network: Intent-; Driven Campus (Small- and Medium-Sized); ef iMaster NCE. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.69] Labels: tenet * The cloud management platform allows centralized management; and maintenance of devices at any place, greatly reducing network; deployment and O&M costs.; a * Applicable scope: small- and medium-sized enterprises; 2 a@ Egress Gateway Branch Office; Advantages (Compared with the AC + Fit AP Architecture); —— (33; € Switch « i) Cloud AP * Plug-and-play and automatic deployment reduce network. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.69] Labels: deployment costs.; y * All network elements (NEs) are monitored and managed on the; Cloud ‘ te; AP STA cloud management platform in a unified manner.; ny * Cloud solutions usually provide various tools on the cloud, reducing; LJ UJ STA costs.; Campus HQ Campus Branch; Page 68 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.70] Labels: Next-Generation Campus Network: Intent-; Driven Campus (Medium- and Large-Sized); |. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.70] Labels: Egress Zone - - 7 ef iMaster NCE; \lY NI NMS O8M Zone; Native AC ba Se Native AC; a {> LZ Architecture Characteristics; ore Layer A; a. ye ye * iMaster NCE manages and configures APs in a unified; . as Asn awn awn; Aggregation Layer KA KA manner and provides various functions. By further. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.70] Labels: q D D integrating with wired networks and leveraging Big Data; Ss 4 tx <4 g ig ; ; ging big; Access Layer owe owe and Al technologies, this architecture implements; simplified, intelligent, and secure campus networks.; * Applicable scope: medium- and large-sized enterprises; — _iStack/CSS Link; Page 69 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)