Page 0
Fondamenti di Internet
SDN and NFV Overview
Prof. Gianluca Reali

Page 1
) Foreword
The open ecosystem of the computing industry brings booming development of multiple
fields, such as Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS), operating
system, virtualization, middleware, cloud computing, and software applications. The
network industry is also seeking transformation and development. Software Defined
Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) are mainly used.
This course aims to help engineers understand the development of SDN and NFV and
introduce Huawei SDN and NFV solutions.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Objectives
e Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:
> Describe the development of SDN and NFV.
> Understand basic principles of OpenFlow.
«= Understand Huawei SDN solution.
7 Understand the standard NFV architecture.
> Understand Huawei NFV solution.
Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

) Contents
1. SDN Overview
2. NEV Overview
Page 3 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Ga) ) Evolution of the Computer Era
Mainframe PC (compatible)
App
abi!
iN
— Dedicated application —— Open interface
HE Windows | Mac
Dedicated OS (cosy | Or) Linux jor) og
—
 
— Open interface
Dedicated hardware
Microprocessor |
Vertical integration and closed interfaces Horizontal integration and open interfaces
Small-scale industry applications Large-scale application across industries
Page 4
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ In 1964, IBM spent US$5 billion on developing IBM System/360 (S/360), which started the
history of mainframes. Mainframes typically use the centralized architecture. The
architecture features excellent |/O processing capability and is the most suitable for
processing large-scale transaction data. Compared with PCs, mainframes have dedicated
hardware, operating systems, and applications.
¢ PCs have undergone multiple innovations from hardware, operating systems, to
applications. Every innovation has brought about great changes and development. The
following three factors support rapid innovation of the entire PC ecosystem:
o
Hardware substrate: The PC industry has adapted a simple and universal hardware
base, x86 instruction set.
software-defined: The upper-layer applications and lower-layer basic software (OS
and virtualization) are greatly innovated.
Open-source: The flourishing development of Linux has verified the correctness of
open source and bazaar model. Thousands of developers can quickly formulate
standards to accelerate innovation.

Page 5
Network Industry Development: Implications
from the IT Industry
The transformation of the IT industry has triggered the thinking of the network industry. The industry has proposed the
SDN concept and has made attempts to put SDN into commercial use, aiming to make networks more
open, flexible, and simple.
Computing Industry Openness Promotes Ecosystem Development
FusionSphere
x86/ARM server
x86/ARM chip
Virtualization
Server, storage
device, PC
Universal
hardware
Comprehensive
cloud services
Various virtualization
technologies, operatin
g
systems, middleware,
database
software, etc.
Storage array PC °°"
Memory
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Hard disk ---
What About Network Industry Changes
Network application
SDN controller
Hardware network device
¢« Does the network industry build a
hierarchical and open ecosystem
according to the computing industry?

Current Situation of the Network Industry:
Typical IP Network - Distributed Network
e The typical IP network is a distributed network with peer-to-peer control. Each network device has independent
forwarding, control, and management planes. The control plane of a network device exchanges packets of a routing
protocol to generate an independent data plane to guide packet forwarding.
e The advantage of a typical IP network is that network devices are
Management
plane
decoupled from protocols, devices from different vendors are compatible Sretiatel pletis
with each other, and network convergence is ensured in fault scenarios. > Forwarding plane
Router-A
Forwarding
table, protocol, and algorithm
Control plane
Unknown Forwarding
data frame behavior
Data forwarding
Ietnel (eu ou Control plane Manage nen
plane plane
Control plane
&® Forwarding plane RD Forwarding plane
Router-B Router-C
Management
 
plane
Configuration
 
comands
Forwarding plane
[”
Receive frames
Send frames
Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ The switch is used as an example to describe the forwarding plane, control plane, and
management plane.
¢ Forwarding plane: provides high-speed, non-blocking data channels for service switching
between service modules. The basic task of a switch is to process and forward various
types of data on its interfaces. Specific data processing and forwarding, such as Layer
2, Layer 3, ACL, QoS, multicast, and security protection, occur on the forwarding plane.
¢ Control plane: provides functions such as protocol processing, service processing, route
calculation, forwarding control, service scheduling, traffic statistics collection, and system
security. The control plane of a switch is used to control and manage the running of all
network protocols. The control plane provides various network information and forwarding
query entries required for data processing and forwarding on the data plane.
¢ Management plane: provides functions such as system monitoring, environment
monitoring, log and alarm processing, system software loading, and system upgrade. The
management plane of a switch provides network management personnel with
Telnet, web, SSH, SNMP, and RMON to manage devices, and supports, parses, and
executes the commands for setting network protocols. On the management
plane, parameters related to various protocols on the control plane must be pre-
configured, and the running of the control plane can be intervened if necessary.
¢ Some Huawei series products are divided into the data plane, management plane, and
monitoring plane.

Thinking in the Network Field: Problems
Faced by Typical Networks
Frequent network congestion
Complex network technologies
Difficult O&M
Slow service deployment
Page 7 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Frequent Network Complex Difficult O&M Slow Service
Congestion Technologies Deployment
Ga) ) Frequent Network Congestion
Problem and Solution of Bandwidth-based Route Problem and Solution of Tunnel Establishment Based on Fixed
Selection Sequence
B
Used bandwidth/Total D E
bandwidth
The network computes forwarding paths based on
bandwidth. The link from router C to router D is the shortest
forwarding path. The volume of service traffic from router C
to router D exceeds the bandwidth, causing packet loss.
Although other links are idle, the algorithm still selects the
shortest path for forwarding. The optimal traffic forwarding
path is C-A-D.
Page 8 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Tunnels are established in sequence: 1. A-E; 2. A-G; 3. C-H. Tunnel 3 fails
to be established due to insufficient bandwidth.

Ga) ) Complex Network Technologies
Many network protocols: Network technology Difficult network configuration: To be familiar with
experts need to learn many RFCs related to network devices of a specific vendor, you need to master
devices. Understanding the RFCs takes a long tens of thousands of commands. Additionally, the
time, and the number of RFCs
 
is still increasing. number of commands
 
is still increasing.
RFC increase trends
79 I i
i Pil
2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013
Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

@ Difficulty in Locating and Analyzing Network
Faults
Difficult to Spot Faults Difficult to Locate Faults
Manualtauii | Manual packet | ' Abnormal flows account for 3.65% of all flows on the network.
entificalon obtaining for locating Manual fault diagnosis
faults
QO | The network faults
(ib) (i) | that are found
- ? upon user
complaints are
just the tip of the
iceberg.
¢ Traditional O&M networks rely on manual fault ¢ Traditional O&M only monitors device indicators. Some
identification, location, and diagnosis. indicators are normal, but user experience is poor. There is no
¢ More than 85% of network faults are found only after correlated analysis of users and networks.
service complaints. Problems cannot be proactively « According to data center network (DCN) statistics, it takes 76
identified or analyzed. minutes to locate a fault on average.
Page10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Ga) ) Slow Network Service Deployment
Network policy
Complex and inflexible network policy changes:
Network policies cannot be defined by user. Policy changes
Access | Bandwidth! QoS Other are complex and cannot be flexibly adjusted.
policy policy policy policies Ii IP address-based, fixed
location, and CLI-based
configuration
Service network
Long service deployment period:
New service deployment involves E2E device configuration
VN for office VN for scientific VN for video modification.
purposes research surveillance
End-to-end configuration using
commands
Low physical network deployment efficiency:
The physical network does not support zero touch
provisioning (ZTP).
Command line-based
configuration by device
Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Vision of network service deployment:
2 Free mobility based on network policies, regardless of physical locations
2 Quick deployment of new service
2 ZTP deployment on the physical network
2 Plug-and-play of devices
¢ Zero-touch provisioning (ZTP) is a method of setting up devices that automatically
configures the device using a switch feature. ZTP helps IT teams quickly deploy network
devices in a large-scale environment, eliminating most of the manual labor involved with
adding them to a network.

Page 12
[=] ) SDN Origin
SDN was developed by the Clean Slate Program at Stanford University as an innovative new network architecture. The
core of SDN is to separate the control plane from the data plane of network devices to implement centralized control of
the network control plane and provide good support for network application innovation.
SDN has three characteristics in initial phase: forwarding-control separation, centralized control, and open
programmable interfaces.
SDN application
The control plane functions are
provided by the controller.
OpenFlow controller Control
plane
Control
lane
i OpenFlow interconnection
Forwarding
plane »>
& Forwarding
plane
OpenFlow switches
OpenFlow switches have only the data plane.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

[=| ) Basic Concepts of OpenFlow
¢ OpenFlow is an SBI protocol between a controller and a switch. It defines three types of messages:
Controller-to-Switch, Asynchronous, and Symmetric. Each message contains more subtypes.
Controller-to-Switch
OpenFlow Controller ( | Controller-to-Switch
This message is sent by the controller. It is used to manage
and query switch information.
Asynchronous
OpenFlow ~ This message is initiated bya switch. When the status of the
switch changes, the switch sends this message to notify the
controller of the status change.
This message can be initiated by a switch or controller.
Symmetric messages include Hello, Echo, and Error
OpenFlow switches | messages.
Page13 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Controller-to-Switch messages:
o
Features message: After an SSL/TCP session is established, the controller sends
Features messages to a switch to request switch information. The switch must send
a response, including the interface name, MAC address, and interface rate.
Configuration message: The controller can set or query the switch status.
Modify-State message: The controller sends this message to a switch to manage
the switch status, that is, to add, delete, or modify the flow table and set interface
attributes of the switch.
Read-State message: The controller sends this message to collect statistics on the
switch.
send-Packet message: The controller sends the message to a specific interface of
the switch.
- Asynchronous messages:
o
Packet-in message: If no matching entry exists in the flow table or the action "send-
to-controller" is matched, the switch sends a packet-in message to the controller.
Packet-out message: The controller sends this message to respond to a switch.
Flow-Removed message: When an entry is added to a switch, the timeout interval is
set. When the timeout interval is reached, the entry is deleted. The switch then
sends a Flow-Removed message to the controller. When an entry in the flow table
needs to be deleted, the switch also sends this message to the controller.
Port-status message: A switch sends this message to notify the controller when the
interface configuration or state changes.
¢ Symmetric messages:
o
Hello message: When an OpenFlow connection is established, the controller and
switch immediately send an OFPT_HELLO message to each other. The version

Page 14
[= ) Flow Table Overview
OpenFlow switches forward packets based on flow tables.
Each flow entry includes the Match Fields, Priority, Counters, Instructions, Timeouts, Cookie, and Flags.
The Match Fields and Instructions are key fields for packet forwarding.
= The Match Fields is a field against which a packet is matched and can be customized.
e The Instructions field indicates OpenFlow processing when a packet matches a flow entry.
Flow table fields can be customized. The
following table is an example.
Ingress Ether VLAN TCP ele
3 10 7 IP
 
1 IP2
MAC1 MAC2 0x8100 5321 8080
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Match Fields: a field against which a packet is matched. (OpenFlow 1.5.1 supports 45
options). It can contain the inbound interface, inter-flow table data, Layer 2 packet
header, Layer 3 packet header, and Layer 4 port number.
¢ Priority: matching sequence of a flow entry. The flow entry with a higher priority is
matched first.
¢ Counters: number of packets and bytes that match a flow entry.
¢ Instructions: OpenFlow processing when a packet matches a flow entry. When a packet
matches a flow entry, an action defined in the Instructions field of each flow entry is
executed. The Instructions field affects packets, action sets, and pipeline processing.
¢ Timeouts: aging time of flow entries, including Idle Time and Hard Time.
a Idle Time: If no packet matches a flow entry after Idle Time expires, the flow entry is
deleted.
2 Hard Time: After Hard Time expires, a flow entry is deleted regardless of whether a
packet matches the flow entry.
¢ Cookie: identifier of a flow entry delivered by the controller.
¢ Flags: This field changes the management mode of flow entries.

Ga) ) Comparison Between Forwarding Modes
Typical Routing Protocol: OpenFlow:
Packet Forwarding Based on Routing Tables Packet Forwarding Based on Flow Tables
Routing protocol
1.1.1.1 1.1.1.2 10.0.0.0/30
TM=3 G0/0/1 > —>
Routing Destination Outbound
table Pieioeel Interface
10.0.0.0/30 OSPF 1.1.1.2 GO0/0/1
« In typical cases, network devices query routing tables to guide
traffic forwarding.
¢ Entries in a routing table are calculated by running a routing
protocol between network devices.
¢ The length of the routing table is fixed. Network devices
Page 15
forward packets based on the longest match rule. A network
device has only one routing table.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
OpenFlow controller
x aii
o ~
o* SA
o* . 10.0.0.0/30
ad ®
Flow table
matching
ee! Tableo L—{ Taber |_J .... | Tablen [+
¢ OpenFlow is a network protocol. Switches running OpenFlow
forward traffic based on flow tables.
¢ Flow tables are calculated by the OpenFlow controller and then
delivered to switches.
¢ A flow table has variable length and defines various matching and
forwarding rules. A network device has multiple flow tables.
¢ For tables 0-255, table 0 is first matched. In a flow table, flow entries are matched by
priority. The flow entry with a higher priority is matched first.
¢ Currently, OpenFlow is mainly used on software switches, such as OVSs and CE1800Vs,
in DCs, but not on physical switches to separate forwarding and control planes.

[=| ) Essential Requirements of SDN
e The essence of SDN is to make networks more open, flexible, and simple. It builds a centralized brain for a
network and implements fast service deployment, traffic optimization, or network service openness through
centralized control in the global view.
e SDN has the following benefits:
Provides centralized management, simplifying network management and O&M.
Shields technical differences, simplifies network configuration, and reduces O&M costs.
Offers automatic optimization, improving network utilization.
Deploys services rapidly, shortening the service rollout time.
Builds an open network, supporting open and programmable third-party applications.
SDN transforms network architecture.
Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Forwarding-control separation is a method to implement SDN.

[=| ) SDN Network Architecture
e The SDN network architecture consists of the orchestration application layer, controller layer, and device layer. Different
layers are connected through open interfaces. From the perspective of the controller layer, SBls oriented to the device
layer and NBIs oriented to the orchestration application layer are distinguished. OpenFlow is one of SBI protocols.
Orchestration application layer
NBI
Controller layer
wee ; . me SBI
- ~
= < 4 \ ~ ~
- 4 \ ~
om 4 “\ >
- i - ¢ ‘ ~ a ~
Device layer & & & Data
forwarding
Page17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Orchestration application layer: provides various upper-layer applications for service
intents, such as OSS and OpenStack. The OSS is responsible for service orchestration of
the entire network, and OpenStack is used for service orchestration of
network, compute, and storage resources in a DC. There are other orchestration-layer
applications. For example, a user wants to deploy a security app. The security app is
irrelevant to the user host location but invokes NBIs of the controller. Then the controller
delivers instructions to each network device. The command varies according to the SBI
protocol.
¢ Controller layer: The SDN controller is deployed at this layer, which is the core of theSDN
network architecture. The controller layer is the brain of the SDN system, and its core
function is to implement network service orchestration.
¢ Device layer: A network device receives instructions from the controller and performs
forwarding.
¢ NBI: NBIs are used by the controller to interconnect with the orchestration application
layer, mainly RESTful.
¢ SBI: SBIs used by the controller to interact with devices through protocols such as
NETCONF, SNMP, OpenFlow, and OVSDB.

[= ) Huawei SDN Network Architecture
e Huawei SDN network architecture supports various SBIs and NBIs, including
OpenFlow, OVSDB, NETCONF, PCEP, RESTful, SNMP, BGP, JSON-RPC, and RESTCONF interfaces.
Network Cloud Wy ° , S
Ww P) OY?
Applications w piatonn Od EMS Orchestration ae Apps
NBI plane RESTful |
 
SNMP
 
| MTOSI/CORBA Kafka/SFTP RESTCONF
e~ iMaster NCE
PCEP NETCONF OpenFlow BGP-LS OVSDB SNMP BGP Json-RPC Telemot
Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface ty
Forwarding
device
Page18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Cloud platform: resource management platform in a cloud DC. The cloud platform
manages network, compute, and storage resources. OpenStack is the most mainstream
open-source cloud platform.
¢ The Element Management System (EMS) manages one or more telecommunication
network elements (NEs) of a specific type.
¢ Orchestration (container orchestration): The container orchestration tool can also provide
the network service orchestration function. Kubernetes is a mainstream tool.
¢ MTOSI or CORBA is used to interconnect with the BSS or OSS.
¢ Kafka or SFTP can be used to connect to a big data platform.
In telecommunications, Multi- Technology Operations System Interface (MTOSI) is a
standard for implementing interfaces between OSSs. Service providers (carriers) use
multiple Operational Support Systems (OSS) to manage complex networks. Since the
various parts of the network must interact, so must the OSSs. It is standardized by the
Telemanagement ForuM (TM Forum)
CORBA® is the acronym for Common Object Request Broker ArchitectureTM, OMG®'s
open, vendor-independent architecture and infrastructure that computer applications use
to work together over networks.

Huawei SDN Solution - Integrating
Ga) ) Management, Control, and Analysis to Build an Intent-
Driven Network
Application _ Cloud & Self-help 0 Mobile = Third-party
layer platform portal app app
Network of iMaster NCE
management :
and control
layer
Branch
Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ IDN uses Artificial Intelligence (Al), Big Data analytics, and cloud technologies to build
digital networks that automatically align with a user's ‘business intent.’
¢ Huawei's Intent-Driven Network (IDN) leverages a simplified, ultra-broadband network
infrastructure to achieve not only wider access but easier management as well. A digital
twin is used to build a digital world, allowing the application of technologies such as Al
and Big Data in the field of networks, creating "autonomous driving" networks. In 2019,
Huawei clearly outlined smart IP networks, defining three core capabilities: intelligent
connectivity, intelligent operations and maintenance (O&M), and intelligent learning.
Huawei has also released an innovative three-tier Al architecture for smart IP networks:
an Al-powered device layer, an Al-powered network layer, and an Al-powered cloud.

A ) Introduction to iMaster NCE
e Huawei iMaster NCE is the industry intelligent network automation platform that integrates
management, control, analysis, and Al capabilities.
SDN-based automatic service Unified data base Full lifecycle management
configuration/deployment Detection, location, and Simulation verification and
Al-based intelligent troubleshooting monitoring optimization
analysis, prediction, and
troubles
Automation + Intelligence Manager + Controller + Analyzer Planning + Construction +
Maintenance + Optimization
a aos Os
°
2 & | C4)
= QO
NMS Controller Analyzer Network System
sight Network ¢ CONTROLLER @ insight — of iMaster NCE
Page 20 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
iMaster NCE converts service intents into physical network configurations. It manages,
controls, and analyzes global networks in a centralized manner in the southbound
direction. It enables resource cloudification, full-lifecycle network automation, and
intelligent closed-loop driven by data analysis for business and service intents. It provides
northbound open APIs for quick integration with IT systems.
iMaster NCE can be used in the enterprise data center network (DCN), enterprise
campus, and enterprise branch interconnection (SD-WAN) scenarios to make enterprise
networks simple, smart, open, and secure, accelerating enterprise service transformation
and innovation.
Huawei eSight provides enterprises with a unified management platform for network,
storage, monitoring, etc. to achieve automatic configuration deployment, visual fault
diagnosis, intelligent capacity analysis and other functions.
The Huawei Agile Controller is the core component of a next-generation network solution
designed by Huawei for enterprise markets. It can be
deployed on agile campus networks, agile branches, agile wired area networks (WANs),
and agile data centers to control policies for
accessing to these networks as well as interconnection between data centers. Following
the centralized control principle of software-
defined networking (SDN), the Agile Controller dynamically schedules network and
security resources on the entire network to allow these resources to migrate with users.
With the Agile Controller, networks will be more agile for services.

iMaster NCE Application
DC iMaster NCE-Fabric *
{i1}0/
 
0/0]WIGIEIET
i Enterprise
iMaster NCE-Campus *
campus
QHD SD-WAN __ iMaster NCE-WAN
(s) IP WAN iMaster NCE-IP
of IM aster NCE é3 transmission Master NCE-T
* iMaster NCE-Fabric and iMaster NCE-
Campus are introduced in this document.
Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Page 22
Enterprise
Campus
= Huawei CloudFabric DCN Autonomous
Service Intent/Strategy
Simplification elements
e< iMaster nce
Telemetry & ERSPAN
SCE sare) NETCONF & SNMP
Perry ve Peer TT ve
G==== =) Gases =) Ge =) Gees =) Ge =) Geess a)
VM VM VM
VM VM VM & a, a, &
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Driving Network Solution
Based on iMaster NCE-Fabric, DCNs provide full-lifecycle services from planning, construction, O&M, to optimization.
Integrated planning and construction:
¢ The planning tool interconnects with iMaster NCE-Fabric to implement
integrated planning and construction.
¢ Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP)
Simplified deployment
* Service intent self-understanding and conversion
¢ Network change simulation and evaluation, eliminating human errors
Intelligent O&M:
¢ Rapid fault detection and location based on knowledge graph and expert
experience
¢ Fast fault rectification based on expert experiences and simulation analysis
Real-time optimization:
¢ Al-Fabric-oriented local traffic inference and online model training and
optimization
¢ User behavior prediction and resource optimization suggestions

Network administrator
o |
ef iMasterNcE @
0, 9/9
, Noa Nd
Spine | “e e
AK AK
/ \ <> | NG
J \ Se | x
(_-AIXEANY
Ae \ 7 NN. oN
«&)
 
&) &) SI
Page 23 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Enterprise
Campus
Simplified ZTP Deployment
ZIP deployment process:
1.
The network administrator clicks the icon on iMaster NCE to start
the ZTP task.
. Adevice automatically obtains an IP address to access iMaster
NCE.
. iMaster NCE determines the device role (spine or leaf node),
delivers configurations such as the management IP address, SNMP
configuration, and NETCONF configuration to online devices, and
manages the devices through the management IP address.
. iMaster NCE globally delivers interconnection configurations as well
as OSPF or BGP configurations.
. The device goes online successfully, and the administrator views
network-wide information on iMaster NCE.
Note: The DC uses the spine-leaf architecture.
¢ Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP) allows automatic deployment of unconfigured devices
after power-on.

Network Intent Self-understanding and Fast
Service Deployment
Network design Configuration delivery Service verification
2 to 3 days 10 minutes 1 to 2 days
ee
iMaster NCE-Fabric
| Verification result analysis
x t x
¥
I
Intent conversion > Network design Simulation verification » Network configuration
|
N
proton
 
e,
a
 
ors
pmoeos
Nees
Ne
 
e
Work order |
: Built-in model:
Intent model v ACL deployment 10 minutes
Vv Network provisioning
\ J
Huawei iMaster NCE-Fabric supports automatic and fast deployment of virtualization, cloud
computing, and container networks.
Page 24 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
e iMaster NCE-Fabric can connect to a user's IT system to match the intent model for user
intents and deliver configurations to devices through NETCONF to implement fast service
deployment.
e jiMaster NCE-Fabric can interconnect with the mainstream cloud platform
(Openstack), virtualization platform (vCenter/System Center), and container orchestration
platforms (Kubernetes).

Enterprise
Campus
@ Network Change Simulation and Change
configuration
information
Live network topology
Live network resource
information
Risk Prediction
Network Formal verification
modeling algorithm
Impact on original
services
Data collection/upload
Modeling and Computing
Establish physical, logical, and
application network models.
Use the formal verification algorithm
for computing.
Page 25 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Verification result
Check whether resources on the live network
are sufficient and whether the network is
connected.
Analyze and display the impact of changes
on original services.

Collection
EI
Continuous learning
and training
based on real site
faults
DC holographic data
Service flow
data/Telemetry data
——
Intelligent analysis engine
Knowledge
inference engine
i aD
Ss _
»
Root cause
analysis
Risk prediction
4 Model application
ON
Data cleanin Al exception Network object
identification modeling
Y
A
»)
Ga) ) Al-powered Intelligent O&M for DCNs
Manual
rectification
Intent-based
loop closing
Recommended
emergency plan:
¢ Port isolation
¢ Configuration rollback
¢ Capacity expansion
recommendation
Enterprise
Campus
Page 26
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
e iMaster NCE-Fabriclnsight provides Al-based intelligent O&M capabilities for DCs.

Huawei CloudCampus Autonomous Driving
Network Solution
Analyzer
| Fast network deployment, improving deployment efficiency by 600%
One-stop management
platform
Manager) Controller
» ae Dp
ef iMaster nce
« Device plug-and-play: simplified device deployment, scenario navigation, and
template-based configuration
¢ Simplified network deployment: Network resource pooling, multi-purpose
network, and automatic service provisioning
| Fast service provisioning, improving user experience by 100%
« Free mobility: GUl-based policy configuration, allowing users to access the
network anytime and anywhere without changing the roaming permission and
Large- or medium- Small- or medium- ESer empellenze ; oo ; ; ; ;
sized campus Campus sized campus * Intelligent terminal identification: Anti-spoofing for terminal access, with an
interconnection
intelligent terminal identification accuracy of over 95%
a | a &® & ca . Intelligent HQoS: Application-based scheduling and shaping, and refined
i VN foroffice purposes \ WAN bandwidth management, ensuring service experience of key users
CY CY |
ea B B Internet Fast intelligent O&M, improving network performance by over 50%
VN for R&D \
| — |
i (y) (y) « Real-time experience visualization: Telemetry-based network experience
visualization at each moment, for each user, and in each area
~o.~ yo, ¢ Precise fault analysis: Proactively identifying 85% of typical network issues and
VN for office providing suggestions, and comparing and analyzing real-time data to predict
| services \ « Access control policy faults
x 8 ¢ Bandwidth « Intelligent network optimization: Predictive optimization of wireless networks
VN for R&D Saclay Seti © Priorit based on historical data, improving network-wide performance by over 50%
| services group 5 y (Source: Tolly Certification)
Page 27 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ https:/Awww.huawei.com/en/news/2021/4/autonomous-driving-network-white-paper-
campuses-architecture
¢ This is where iMaster NCE comes in as it supports intent-driven intelligent network
planning and design. After a user
enters the service intent and uploads the building blueprint, the system understands and
converts the intent, and
identifies the drawing on top of that.
¢ A campus network typically contains many routing & switching devices
and terminals (such as security cameras, office printers, and production
line sensors). These devices are usually manually brought online, and their
connections and policies are also configured manually, which is both
time-consuming and error-prone. To address this issue, customers want to
simplify network construction and slash labor costs by achieving
« Network device plug-and-play
2 Automatic generation and delivery of underlay and overlay network
configurations
2 Automatic terminal management after they go online
2 Delivery of appropriate access permission policies to terminals on demand
¢ With iMaster NCE, network configurations can be automatically generated based on the
network design solution
generated in the planning phase. After devices go online, it automatically pushes

© ef iMaster NcE
Ga) ) Device Plug-and-Play
; : Deployment Through the Registration
Deployment by Scanning Bar Codes DHCP-based Deployment Query Center
© e¢ iMaster NcE
pe
Campus
@ ef iMasternce @
ms
Registration
: * ; \ query center
I \ ! \
I \ / \
I \ ! 1 =
0 0 | © ©
I
/
\ / \ | DHCP server
\ /
ef 7 &
; ; 1. Pre-configuration
,; ; . Pre-configuration ; gs
1. Pre-configuration ; , ; 2. Information synchronization
; . Obtaining registration information through the . _ ;
2. Deployment by scanning bar codes DHCP server 3. Obtaining registration information through the
3. Automatic device registration and login , : ; , registration query center
:; ; . Automatic device registration and login ; ; ; ; ;
4. Automatic configuration delivery ; ; 4. Automatic device registration and login
. Automatic configuration delivery
5. Automatic configuration delivery
Page 28 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Device plug-and-play includes but is not limited to deployment by scanning bar codes
using an app, DHCP-based deployment, and deployment through the registration query
center.
¢ Inthe CloudCampus Solution, iMaster NCE-Campus can quickly provision network
services to campus network devices through NETCONF only after the devices have gone
online on iMaster NCE-Campus.
¢ On large- or medium-sized campus networks, there are a large number of switches
downstream from the core layer. In most cases, you need to first use command lines to
connect core switches to iMaster NCE-Campus in the southbound direction, and then
configure the core switches as the root devices of the management subnet and configure
DHCP to allow switches downstream from the core layer to go online iMaster NCE-
Campus. Then, these switches are plug-and-play, simplifying network deployment. See
https://support.huawei.com/enterprise/en/doc/EDOC
 
1 10016945 7/64333cb1/device-plug-
and-play
¢ Registration center: Huawei device registration query center, also called registration
center, is one of the main components of Huawei CloudCampus solution. It is used to
query the device management mode and registration ownership. A device determines
whether to switch to the cloud-based management mode and which cloud management
platform to register with based on the query result. The AP is used as an example.
Huawei devices that support cloud-based management are pre-configured with the URL
(register.naas.huawei.com) and port number (10020) of the Huawei device registration
center.

= Free Mobility:
Policy Management Based on Security Groups
e Free mobility: Enables users to have consistent network rights and security policies regardless of their
locations and IP addresses.
Sesmimrersun Security esp Security group 4) Use security groups. A security group is
2) for sales users 2) for R&D users 2) oP BENE a GiGup of USers for which the same
ae security policy is used.
2 Define security group-based permission
PugEROUGy Eu PeNenGe Pelley control policies and user experience policies
and deliver the policies to network devices.
Deliver security policies
Vy © A security group is authorized to a user after
the user passes access authentication.
4) After user traffic enters a network, network
Campus
network
al" 4x A devices enforce policies based on the source
= \ and destination security groups of the traffic.
Access authentication Access‘authentication Access authentication
2) UserA 2) User B 2) User C
Page 29 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Inthe free mobility solution, a security group is an entity unit for permission control.
Different user terminals are allocated to different security groups, and access policies
between security groups are configured to implement user terminal permission
management on the network. Security groups are created on iMaster NCE-Campus. After
user terminals are authenticated, iMaster NCE-Campus, functioning as the authentication
server, authorizes security group information to the user terminals. After receiving the
authorized security group information, the authentication control points dynamically
generate |IP-security group entries based on IP addresses of the user terminals.
¢ See https://support.huawei.com/enterprise/en/doc/EDOC1 100191961/9a430703/best-
practices-for-free-mobility-solution-deployment

pe
Campus
Ga) ) Wired and Wireless Convergence
| WLAN Construction Mode 1: Standalone AC
|
VW/LAN Construction Mode 2: AC Card |
¢ This mode poses a wireless
traffic bottleneck and
increases faulty nodes.
¢ Wired and wireless
management is independent.
Independent AC
¢ Wired and wireless
* AnAC card is installed on a
switch to provide AC functions.
¢ Hardware-level convergence.
authentication points are
separated.
Wired and Wireless Convergence (Native AC)
The switch integrates the AC function, eliminating wireless traffic forwarding bottlenecks and reducing fault
nodes. Wired and wireless devices are centrally managed.
¢ Unified management and converged forwarding of wired and wireless services
* Converged management for wired and wireless users and gateway convergence
* Converged authentication points for wired and wireless access
5 ¢ Unified wired and wireless policy execution
Page 30 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ To support a mobile office, enterprises require a high-speed, flexible wireless network that
can be converged with the existing wired network. Traditionally, wired and wireless
networks are overlaid and managed separately, doubling the workload and increasing the
complexity of Operations and Maintenance (O&M). However, in the Huawei Agile Campus
solution, agile switches with native Access Controller (AC) functionality work with
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Access Points (APs) to implement wired and
wireless convergence, with unified management of wired and wireless networks and high
forwarding performance guaranteed. The entire campus network of core and aggregation
switches, access switches, and APs can be virtualized into one device, simplifying
management and reducing Operating Expenditure (OPEX) by 69%.

@ Intelligent Terminal Identification,
Ensuring Secure Access
Requirements (7A of —
and Challenges ( i) y — Huawei supports identification of
Wht iMaster NCE = 1000+ office or loT terminals.
A university
. Built-in terminal
50+ types of smart terminals fingerprint library
Terminal information is | ee
collected by IT
departments of colleges: ss = — —= =
MAC address collection is C wi-Fi_) Geese 5) Gi) Ges.
 
5) Cw) aan nt
difficult and error-prone.
An enterprise Qo lea >> ALD
EEE =—
100+ authentication faults
reported per day Terminal-type-based Terminal-type-based Terminal-type-based
Hf feadl iter (be lemmas Automatic authentication Automatic authorization Spoofing detection
fin Printer Camera IP phone and PC
Rees REPO OUTS. MAC address authentication, without Is automatically added to the Report a terminal spoofing alarm.
entering any MAC address video surveillance group.
Is configured as the VIP user.
Page 31 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Built-in terminal fingerprint library: Multiple intelligent identification methods are combined
to accurately identify terminal types. Massive loT terminals are connected intelligently,
and policies are automatically matched and delivered, making loT terminals plug-and-
play.
¢ Network devices collect the fingerprint of terminal packets and report it to the NMS, which
then matches it against the built-in fingerprint database to identify the terminal types. In
this situation, terminals can be identified through a MAC organizationally unique identifier
(OUI), HTTP User-Agent, DHCP Option, LLDP, and multicast DNS (mDNS).
¢ AMAC OUI is the leftmost three bytes in a MAC address that uniquely identifies an
organization.
¢ Terminals can be identified based on the User-Agent field in HTTP packets because the
contents in the User-Agent field vary according to the terminal type. This method is well
suited for identifying PCs and mobile terminals, because in most cases, the User-Agent
field in HTTP packets sent by these terminals during website access through the browser
contains comprehensive terminal information, including the terminal type, operating
system, vendor, and browser type.
¢ Terminal types can be identified based on options carried in DHCP messages, such as:
—Option 55 (requested parameter list)
—Option 60 (vendor id)
—Option 12 (host name)
Compared with other methods, terminal identification based on DHCP options is more
accurate and ideal for identifying terminals that dynamically obtain IP addresses.

Ga) ) HQoS: User- and Application-based QoS Policy
User- and application-based QoS policies ensure experience of high-priority users and applications
Requirements and of
Challenges @
iMaster NCE
1. Define VIP users and
common users, and
application priorities.
. Schedule users and
application queues based on
priorities of users and
applications.
. Support native AC or
independent
 
AC deployment.
Traditional QoS
policies are invalid
for video services.
(Example) Building o>
surveillance scenario:
Wireless video services
of common users
increase, occupying a
large number of network
resources and causing
network congestion.
users Camera Video
surveillance
a Cc
Mobile phone and tablet
Page 32 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
https://support.huawei.com/enterprise/en/doc/EDOC
 
1 100055126/2ae9/afi/hgqos
¢ Hierarchical Quality of Service (HQOS) is a technology that uses a queue scheduling
mechanism to guarantee the bandwidth of multiple services of multiple users in the
DiffServ model.
¢ Traditional QoS performs 1-level traffic scheduling. The device can distinguish services
on an interface but cannot identify users. Packets of the same priority are placed into the
same queue on an interface and compete for the same queue resources.
¢ HQoS uses multi-level scheduling to distinguish user-specific or service-specific traffic
and provide differentiated bandwidth management.
¢ HQoS uses a tree-shaped hierarchical scheduling model. The hierarchical scheduling
model consists of three types of nodes:
¢ Leaf node: is located at the bottom layer and identifies a queue. The leaf node is a
scheduled object and can only be scheduled.
¢ Transit node: is located at the medium layer and refers to both a scheduler and a
scheduled object. When a transit node functions as a scheduled object, the transit node
can be considered a virtual queue, which is only a layer in the scheduling architecture but
not an actual queue that consumes buffers.
¢ Root node: is located at the top layer and identifies the top-level scheduler. The root node
is only a scheduler but not a scheduled object. The PIR is delivered to the root node to
restrict the output bandwidth.
« A scheduler can schedule multiple queues or schedulers. The scheduler can be

:
Ga) ) Al-Powered Intelligent O&M of Campus Networks
As-ls: Device-Centered Network Management To-Be: User Experience-Centered Al-Powered Intelligent O&M
of | Master NCE Intelligent network analyzer
7 NMS Campusinsight * Visualized user experience
Traditional , Topology management management
NMS © Performance * User journey playback —
management Telemetry - Potential fault identification
SNMP + Alarm management Second-level network ° Root cause identification .
Minute-level network - Configuration data collection Predictive network optimization
data collection management
Neo
(YE ORSI::
Experience visualization: Telemetry-based second-level data collection, visualized
experience of each user and each application in real time
* Device-centric O&M method: User experience cannot be Minute-level potential fault identification and root cause location
detected. « Identify potential faults based on dynamic baselines and big data correlation
* Fault-triggered responses: Potential faults cannot be afalysis.
‘dentified > P « Accurately locate root causes of faults through KPI association analysis and protocol
; tracing.
= ely Of PreleesiGhial EhGInicets) I INCate)SaUIkS OMSIKs. Predictive network optimization: Al is used to intelligently analyze the AP load
trend and implement predictive optimization on the wireless network.
personnel from complex alarms and noises, making O&M more automated and intelligent.
Page 33 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

Traditional radio calibration
cannot achieve
expected results
Phase 1: Manual Calibration
Based on engineers’ experience, the
calibration is time-consuming and
error-prone, and the calibration result
is unstable. PN
(A
Radio calibration
simulation
Al-powered
intelligent radio
calibration
ef jiMaster NcE
data collection
Real-time and historical
pe
campus
Ga) ) Al-Powered Intelligent Radio Calibration
Tested and verified by PS)
authoritative organizations Tolly.
Average downlink rate per terminal:
198 Mbit/s
58%
125 Mbit/s D
Before radio After Al-powered
> Pe nas .
calibration smart radio
| | Smart radio =~ calibration
Calibration we calibration and Counter _ .
Phase 2: Automatic Calibration ~~ closed-loop Average Wi-Fi channel interference
Calibration based on real-time radio
interference does not consider device 55%
load changes, and the calibration 49%
result cannot be ensured. 3 5 z YD 2.8%
se 38 i= ®
$2 98 E a
Ef 38 8 O
se us 3
O 8 6 Before radio After Al-powered
calibration smart radio
calibration
Page 34 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ The radio calibration function can dynamically adjust channels and transmit power of APs
managed by the same AC to ensure that the APs work at the optimal performance.

) Contents
1. SDN Overview
2. NEV Overview
Page 35 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

NFV Background: Thinking from IT Industry
Transformation
e The IT industry transformation brings thinking on network architecture and device architecture in the
network industry. The network architecture layer involves the SDN controller and the device architecture
layer involves the device deployment mode.
IT Industry Transformation
¢ Inrecent years, IT technologies such as virtualization and
cloud computing have been booming, and applications
deployed on hardware have been gradually migrated to
the cloud. Applications are deployed on private
clouds, public clouds, or hybrid clouds as software.
Network?
¢ Thinking about the network industry: Can network
pe ae applications be deployed in a software-based manner?
Os OSs ¢ Inthe context, Network Functions Virtualization (NFV)
App .
is introduced.
Virtualization/ | VM VM
Os Cloudification
Page 36 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ Virtualized network functions (VNFs) are implemented by virtualizing traditional NEs such
as IMSs and CPEs of carriers. After hardware is universalized, traditional NEs are no
longer the products with embedded software and hardware. Instead, they are installed on
universal hardware (NFVI) as software.

[=] ) Origin of NFV
e In October 2012, 13 top carriers (including AT&T, Verizon, VDF, DT, T-Mobile, BT, and Telefonica) released
the first version of NFV White Paper at the SDN and OpenFlow World Congress. In addition, the Industry
Specification Group (ISG) was founded to promote the definition of network virtualization requirements and
the formulation of the system architecture.
e In 2013, the ETSI NFV ISG conducted the first phase of research and completed the formulation of related
standards. The ETSI NFV ISG defined NFV requirements and architecture and sorts out the
standardization processes of different interfaces.
ETS —y
World Class Standards
Page 37 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
In 2015, NFV research entered the second phase. The main research objective is to build
an interoperable NFV ecosystem, promote wider industry participation, and ensure that
the requirements defined in phase 1 are met. In addition, the ETSI NFV ISG (Industry
Specification Group) specified the collaboration relationships between NFV and SDN
standards and open source projects. Five working groups are involved in NFV phase 2:
IFA (architecture and interface), EVE (ecosystem), REL (reliability), SEC (security), and
TST (test, execution, and open source). Each working group mainly discusses the
deliverable document framework and delivery plan.
The ETSI NFV standard organization cooperates with the Linux Foundation to start the
open source project OPNFV (NFV open source project, providing an integrated and open
reference platform), integrate resources in the industry, and actively build the NFV
industry ecosystem. In 2015, OPNFV released the first version, further promoting NFV
commercial deployment.
NFV-related standard organizations include:
2 ETSINFV ISG: formulates NFV requirements and functional frameworks.
a2 93GPP SA5 working group: focuses on technical standards and specifications of
3GPP NE virtualization management (MANO-related).
2 QOpen Platform for NFV (OPNFV): provides an open-source platform project that
accelerates NFV marketization.

[= ) NFV Value
e NFV aims to address issues such as complex deployment and O&M and service innovation
difficulties due to large numbers of telecom network hardware devices. NFV brings the following
benefits to carriers while reconstructing telecom networks:
« Shortened service rollout time
« Reduced network construction cost
2 Improved network O&M efficiency
2 Open ecosystem
Page 38 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Shortened service rollout time: In the NFV architecture, adding new service nodes
becomes simple. No complex site survey or hardware installation is required. For service
deployment, you only need to request virtual resources (compute, storage, and network
resources) and software loading, simplifying network deployment. To update service
logic, you simply need to add new software or load new service modules to complete
service orchestration. Service innovations become simple.
Reduced network construction cost: Virtualized NEs can be integrated into COTS devices
to reduce the cost. Enhancing network resource utilization and lowering power
consumption can lower overall network costs. NFV uses cloud computing technologies
and universal hardware to build a unified resource pool. Resources are dynamically
allocated on demand based on service requirements, implementing resource sharing and
improving resource utilization. For example, automatic scale-in and scale-out can be used
to solve the resource usage problem in the tidal effect.
Enhanced network O&M efficiency: Automated and centralized management improves
the operation efficiency and reduces the O&M cost. Automation includes DC-based
hardware unit management automation, MANO application service life management
automation, NFV- or SDN-based coordinated network automation.
Open ecosystem: The legacy telecom network exclusive software/hardware model
defines a closed system. NFV-based telecom networks use an architecture based on
standard hardware platforms and virtual software. The architecture easily provides open
platforms and open interfaces for
 
third-party developers, and allows carriers to build open
ecosystems together with third-party partners.

Page 39
[=| ) Key NFV Technologies: Virtualization
Virtualization is the foundation of NFV, and cloudification is the key.
On traditional telecom networks, each NE is implemented by dedicated hardware, resulting in high costs and difficult
O&M. Virtualization features partition, isolation, encapsulation, and independence from hardware, which can meet NFV
requirements. Carriers use virtualization to run software-based NEs on universal infrastructures.
Partition Isolation
<tr
Multiple VMs can concurrently run on VMs that run on the same server are
a single physical server. isolated from each other.
Encapsulation Hardware independence
All data of a VM is saved in files. A VM VMs can run on any servers without any
can be moved and replicated by moving modifications.
and replicating the files.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ On traditional telecom networks, each NE is implemented by dedicated hardware. A large
number of hardware interoperability tests, installation, and configuration are required
during network construction, which is time-consuming and labor-consuming. In
addition, service innovation depends on the implementation of hardware vendors, which is
time-consuming and cannot meet carriers’ service innovation requirements. In this
context, carriers want to introduce the virtualization mode to provide software NEs and run
them on universal infrastructures (including universal servers, storage devices, and
switches).
¢ Using universal hardware helps carriers reduce the cost of purchasing dedicated
hardware. Service software can be rapidly developed through iteration, which enables
carriers to innovate services quickly and improve their competitiveness. By dong
this, carriers can enter the cloud computing market.

A ) Introduction to the NFV Architecture
e The NFV architecture includes the network functions virtualization infrastructure (NFVI), a virtualized network function
(VNF), and management and orchestration (MANO). In addition, the NFV architecture needs to support the existing
business support system (BSS) or operations support system (OSS).
Page 40 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
Each layer of the NFV architecture can be provided by different vendors, which improves
system development but increases system integration complexity.
NFV implements efficient resource utilization through device normalization and software
and hardware decoupling, reducing carriers' TCO, shortening service rollout time, and
building an open industry ecosystem.
The NFVI consists of the hardware layer and virtualization layer, which are also called
COTS ((Commercial) Off-the-Shelf component), and CloudOS in the industry.
2 COTS: universal hardware, focusing on availability and universality, for
example, Huawei FusionServer series hardware server.
2 CloudOS: cloud-based platform software, which can be regarded as the operating
system of the telecom industry. CloudOS virtualizes physical compute, storage, and
network resources into virtual resources for upper-layer software to use, for
example, Huawei FusionSphere.
VNF: A VNE can be considered as an app with different network functions and is
implemented by software of traditional NEs (such as IMS, EPC, BRAS, and CPE) of
carriers.
MANO: MANO is introduced to provision network services in the NFV multi-CT or multi-IT
vendor environment, including allocating physical and virtual resources, vertically
streamlining management layers, and quickly adapting to and interconnecting with new
vendors' NEs. The MANO includes the Network Functions Virtualization Orchestrator
(NFVO, responsible for lifecycle management of network services), Virtualized Network
Function Manager (VNFM, responsible for lifecycle management of VNFs), and
Virtualized Infrastructure Manager (VIM, responsible for resource management of the
NFVI).

[=| ) Standard NFV Architecture
¢ ETSI defines the standard NFV architecture, which consists of the NFVI, VNF, and MANO. The NFVI includes the
universal hardware layer and virtualization layer. The VNF is implemented using software, and the MANO implements
management and orchestration of an NFV architecture. NEV Management and Orchestration
Os-Ma
a NFV
Orchestrator
ve-Mnnn Service, VNF, and
Infrastructure
VNF 2 Description
+ t t Vn-Nf L
NFVI
Virtualization Layer
Virtual Virtual Virtual Nf-Vi Virtualized
Computing Storage Network Infrastructure
I Vi-Ha Manager(s)
Hardware
Computing Storage Network
eo—e Execution reference point Other reference point — Main NFV reference points
Page 41 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ The NFV architecture includes the_ network functions virtualization infrastructure
(NFVI),, a virtualized network function (VNF), and management and orchestration
(MANO). In addition, the NFV architecture needs to support the existing business support
system (BSS) or operations support system (OSS).
¢ ETSI defines the standard NFV architecture, which consists of NFVI, VNF, and MANO
components. NFVI consists of common hardware facilities and virtualization. VNFs use
software to implement virtualized network functions, and MANOs manage and orchestrate
the NFV architecture.
Functional Modules of the NFV Architecture
¢ Main functional modules defined in the standard NFV architecture:
¢ OSS or BSS: A management system for a Service provider. It is not a functional
component in the NFV architecture, but the MANO must provide an interface for
interoperation with the OSS or BSS.
¢ MANO: NFV management and orchestration. The MANO includes the VIM, VNFM, and
NFVO, and provides unified management and orchestration for VNFs and the NFVI.
¢ VIM: NFVI management module that runs on an infrastructure site. The VIM provides
functions such as resource discovery, virtual resource management and allocation, and
fault handling.
¢ VNFM: It controls the VNF lifecycle (including instantiation, configuration, and shutdown).

[=] ) Functional Modules of the NFV Architecture
Main functional modules defined in the standard NFV architecture:
MANO
Management system for a service provider. It is not a functional component in the NFV architecture, but the MANO must
provide an interface for interoperation with the OSS or BSS.
NFV management and orchestration. The MANO includes the VIM, VNFM, and NFVO, and provides unified management and
orchestration for VNFs and the NFVI.
VIM: NFVI management module that runs on an infrastructure site. The VIM provides functions such as resource
discovery, virtual resource management and allocation, and fault handling.
VNFM: It controls the VNF lifecycle (including instantiation, configuration, and shutdown).
NFVO: It orchestrates and manages all the software resources and network services on an NFV network.
- VNF VNEs refer to VMs as well as service NEs and network function software deployed on the VMs.
Page 42
NFVI
NFV infrastructure, including required hardware and software. The NFVI provides a running environment for VNFs.
Hardware layer: includes hardware devices that provide compute, network, and storage resources.
Virtualization layer: abstracts hardware resources to form virtual resources, such as virtual compute, storage, and
network resources. The virtualization function is implemented by Hypervisor!"),
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ BSS: business support system
¢ OSS: operation support system
¢ A hypervisor is a software layer between physical servers and OSs. It allows multiple OSs
and applications to share the same set of physical hardware. It can be regarded as a
meta operating system in the virtual environment, and can coordinate all physical
resources and VMs on the server. It is also called virtual machine monitor (VMM). The
hypervisor is the core of all virtualization technologies. Mainstream hypervisors include
KVM, VMWare ESXi, Xen, and Hyper-V.

Page 43
[= ) NFV Architecture Interfaces
Main interfaces of the standard NFV architecture:
Vi-Ha
Vn-Nf
Nf-Vi
Ve-Vnfm
OS-Ma
Vi-Vnfm
Or-Vnfm
Or-Vi
Is used between the virtualization layer and hardware layer. The virtualization layer meets basic hardware compatibility
requirements.
Is used between a VM and the NF VI. It ensures that VMs can be deployed on the NFVI to meet performance, reliability, and
scalability requirements. The NFVI meets VMs' OS compatibility requirements.
Is used between the virtualization layer management software and NF VI. It provides management of virtual computing, storage,
and network systems of NF
 
VI, virtual infrastructure configuration and connections, as well as system usage, performance
monitoring, and fault management.
Is used between the VNFM and a VNF, implementing VNF lifecycle management, VNF configuration, VNF performance, and fault
management.
Manages lifecycles of network services and VNFs.
ls used for interaction between the service application management system or service orchestration system and virtualization layer
management software.
Sends configuration information to the VNFM, configures the VNFM, and connects the orchestrator and VNFM. It exchanges
information with the NFVI resources allocated to VNFs and information between VNFs.
Is used to send resource reservation and resource allocation requests required by the orchestrator and exchange virtual hardware
resource configurations and status information.
Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

A ) Huawei's NFV Solution
e In the Huawei NFV architecture, functions of the virtualization layer and VIM are implemented by the HUAWEI CLOUD
Stack NFVI platform. HUAWEI CLOUD Stack can virtualize compute, storage, and network resources and centrally
manage, monitor, and optimize physical virtualization resources.
e Huawei provides cloud-based solutions for carriers' wireless networks, bearer networks, transport networks, access
CloudOpera
NFVO
Cloud
CloudBB DSL/OLT CloudEdge CloudCore
FusionCompute FusionStorage FusionNetwork
Hardware
VNFM
NFVI
FusionSphere
OpenStack + OM
Computing Storage Network
Page 44 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.
¢ DSL: Digital Subscriber Line
¢ OLT: Optical Line Terminal
¢ Inthe Huawei NFV architecture, functions of the virtualization layer and VIM are
implemented by the HUAWEI CLOUD Stack NFVI platform. HUAWEI CLOUD Stack can
virtualize compute, storage, and network resources and centrally manage, monitor, and
optimize physical virtualization resources.
¢ Huawei provides cloud-based solutions for carriers' wireless networks, bearer
networks, transport networks, access networks, and core networks.

C-) ) More Information
e For more information about OpenFlow, visit https:/Avww.opennetworking.org/ .
e For more information about Huawei SDN solution, see the HCIP course.
Page 45 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.

[Figura da Pag.1] Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: Se ae ee ! . SP yaar Se ernie TO ae ee; viommedeies \. -unipge =; HER CV ; = - eK ,; LAN VS =>, .; ' .; n UNIVERSITA DEGLI STUDI. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: - ee DI PERUGIA 7. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: EViIUGAEIGEiItl UE TILGCriict. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.1] Labels: OWIN AllU INE V UVCIVICVW; Page 0 Prof. Gianluca Reali. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.2] Labels: ) Foreword; e The open ecosystem of the computing industry brings booming development of multiple; fields, such as Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS), operating; system, virtualization, middleware, cloud computing, and software applications. The; network industry is also seeking transformation and development. Software Defined; Networking (SDN) and Network Functions Virtualization (NFV) are mainly used.; e This course aims to help engineers understand the development of SDN and NFV and; introduce Huawei SDN and NFV solutions.; Page 1 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.3] Labels: or ) Objectives; e Upon completion of this course, you will be able to:; ° Describe the development of SDN and NFV.; s Understand basic principles of OpenFlow.; co Understand Huawei SDN solution.; c Understand the standard NFV architecture.; o Understand Huawei NFV solution.; Page 2 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rignts reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.4] Labels: ) Contents; 1. SDN Overview; 2. NFV Overview; Page 3 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.5] Labels: Evolution of the Computer Era; Mainframe PC (compatible); a ”; 9) _ Dedicated application —— pel Inlerace ——; | {I » Windows or IMINEIRGal or Mac; | Dedicated OS | (OS) OS; Dedicated hardware —— Open interface ———; Vertical integration and closed interfaces Horizontal integration and open interfaces; Small-scale industry applications Large-scale application across industries; Page 4 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.6] Labels: e The transformation of the IT industry has triggered the thinking of the network industry. The industry has proposed the; SDN concept and has made attempts to put SDN into commercial use, aiming to make networks more; open, flexible, and simple.; Computing Industry Openness Promotes Ecosystem Development What About Network Industry Changes; ECS EVS cloud services | y; : Qaeursx04 Various virtualization r | y; Middleware . technologies, operatin SK fo; — 3 :; FusionSphere yada Network application; Virtualization software, etc.; _ GSE SDN controller; Server, storage “ Storage array PC -"; device, PC x86/ARM server Hardware network device; Universal -E ¢ Does the network industry build a; hardware Memory — Hard disk --- hierarchical and open ecosystem; x86/ARM chip according to the computing industry?; Page 5 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.7] Labels: e The typical IP network is a distributed network with peer-to-peer control. Each network device has independent; forwarding, control, and management planes. The control plane of a network device exchanges packets of a routing; protocol to generate an independent data plane to guide packet forwarding.; e The advantage of a typical IP network is that network devices are; , , , M t; decoupled from protocols, devices from different vendors are compatible; with each other, and network convergence is ensured in fault scenarios. &; Router-A; Forwarding LJ; of; C e; Control plane < E; 5 : Management; Unk F di iS M t; 2 |2| &; Cc |] 6; [> Forwarding plane 4 s 7 — Router-B Router-C; Receive frames; Send frames; Page 6 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.8] Labels: Thinking in the Network Field: Problems; Faced by Typical Networks. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.9] Labels: Problem and Solution of Bandwidth-based Route Problem and Solution of Tunnel Establishment Based on Fixed; Selection Sequence; Tunnels are established in sequence: 1. A-E; 2. A-G; 3. C-H. Tunnel 3 fails; A B to be established due to insufficient bandwidth.; 1G/5G > A 2 A; aN © At? -.0x; \; & bs 0G | ®; R> R; 6G/I5G SA oh ON WN; © © a £3—£; Used bandwidth/Total D E . . . ;; emdwiath Global path calculation and optimal tunnel path adjustment:; a 2) _— A; The network computes forwarding paths based on “ge Y Va; bandwidth. The link from router C to router D is the shortest 4; forwarding path. The volume of service traffic from router C :; to router D exceeds the bandwidth, causing packet loss. &> 3 <>; Although other links are idle, the algorithm still selects the ANS |; shortest path for forwarding. The optimal traffic forwarding R E; path is C-A-D. Oe ~&; Page 8 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.10] Labels: Complex Network Technologies; Many network protocols: Network technology Difficult network configuration: To be familiar with; experts need to learn many RFCs related to network devices of a specific vendor, you need to master; devices. Understanding the RFCs takes a long tens of thousands of commands. Additionally, the; time, and the number of RFCs is still increasing. number of commands is still increasing.; RFC increase trends; 212 Sy 205 195 [ee; 152 499 424 190 SS; : - : - ; “SSS; 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013; Page 9 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.11] Labels: Frequent Network Complex Slow Service; ) Congestion Technologies O&M Deployment; Difficult to Spot Faults Difficult to Locate Faults; Abnormal flows account for 3.65% of all flows on the network.; : gai obtaining for locating Manual fault diagnosis; identification; faults; QO The network faults; (iS) (i) that are found; ~*~ upon user; complaints are; just the tip of the; iceberg.; ¢ Traditional O&M networks rely on manual fault ¢ Traditional O&M only monitors device indicators. Some; identification, location, and diagnosis. indicators are normal, but user experience is poor. There is no; ¢ More than 85% of network faults are found only after correlated analysis of users and networks.; service complaints. Problems cannot be proactively ¢ According to data center network (DCN) statistics, it takes 76; identified or analyzed. minutes to locate a fault on average.; Page10 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.12] Labels: Network policy; Complex and inflexible network policy changes:; Network policies cannot be defined by user. Policy changes; Access | Bandwidth! QoS Other are complex and cannot be flexibly adjusted.; policy policy policy policies Ii IP address-based, fixed; location, and CLI-based; configuration; Service network; Long service deployment period:; New service deployment involves E2E device configuration; VN for office VN for scientific VN for video modification.; purposes research surveillance; End-to-end configuration using; commands; Physical network; Low physical network deployment efficiency:; The physical network does not support zero touch; provisioning (ZTP).; Command line-based; configuration by device; Page 11 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.13] Labels: e SDN was developed by the Clean Slate Program at Stanford University as an innovative new network architecture. The; core of SDN is to separate the control plane from the data plane of network devices to implement centralized control of; the network control plane and provide good support for network application innovation.; e SDN has three characteristics in initial phase: forwarding-control separation, centralized control, and open; programmable interfaces.; SDN application; The control plane functions are; provided by the controller. z :; =(=|= ontro; OpenFlow controller ASE rmmrmmrmrmssssaasaae5 one; Control; | OpenFlo; i ane P “ OpenFlow interconnection; Forwarding ’; } Be 4 ye £ &; & & ss éFoorwarding; plane; OpenFlow switches; OpenFlow switches have only the data plane.; Page12 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.14] Labels: ¢ OpenFlow is an SBI protocol between a controller and a switch. It defines three types of messages:; Controller-to-Switch, Asynchronous, and Symmetric. Each message contains more subtypes.; Controller-to-Switch; OpenFlow Controller; ski This message is sent by the controller. It is used to manage; F i and query switch information.; OpenFlow This message is initiated by a switch. When the status of the; switch changes, the switch sends this message to notify the; controller of the status change.; & & & & This message can be initiated by a switch or controller.; Symmetric messages include Hello, Echo, and Error; OpenFlow switches messages.; Page13 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.15] Labels: Flow Table Overview; e OpenFlow switches forward packets based on flow tables.; e Each flow entry includes the Match Fields, Priority, Counters, Instructions, Timeouts, Cookie, and Flags.; The Match Fields and Instructions are key fields for packet forwarding.; c The Match Fields is a field against which a packet is matched and can be customized.; ° The Instructions field indicates OpenFlow processing when a packet matches a flow entry.; Lt | ey [ete an) tent | te | fo; Flow table fields can be customized. The; following table is an example.; Ingress Ether VLAN TCP TCP; fm source | Soo ype | YANO | monty | SE | TOM roe | outro; 3 MAC1 MAC2 0x8100 10 7 IP1 IP2 5321 8080; Page14 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.16] Labels: Typical Routing Protocol: OpenFlow:; Packet Forwarding Based on Routing Tables Packet Forwarding Based on Flow Tables; OpenFlow controller; Routing protocol Prog i i ae; a ~; 1.4.4.4 1112 10.0.0.0/30 o7 . 10.0.0.0/30; Ss. eh  ——— Sm; Goo/1 > a lS; Flow table; matching; process:; Routing Destination Brotcol Outbound _ _ =a _; table Network Interface FI; OW 3 ae 5 F; « In typical cases, network devices query routing tables to guide ¢ OpenFlow is a network protocol. Switches running OpenFlow; traffic forwarding. forward traffic based on flow tables.; « Entries in a routing table are calculated by running a routing « Flow tables are calculated by the OpenFlow controller and then; protocol between network devices. delivered to switches.; ¢ The length of the routing table is fixed. Network devices ¢ A flow table has variable length and defines various matching and; forward packets based on the longest match rule. A network forwarding rules. A network device has multiple flow tables.; device has only one routing table.; Page15 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.17] Labels: Essential Requirements of SDN; e The essence of SDN is to make networks more open, flexible, and simple. It builds a centralized brain for a; network and implements fast service deployment, traffic optimization, or network service openness through; centralized control in the global view.; e SDN has the following benefits:; c Provides centralized management, simplifying network management and O&M.; e Shields technical differences, simplifies network configuration, and reduces O&M costs.; © Offers automatic optimization, improving network utilization.; ¢ Deploys services rapidly, shortening the service rollout time.; ° Builds an open network, supporting open and programmable third-party applications.; SDN transforms network architecture.; Page 16 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.18] Labels: SDN Network Architecture; e The SDN network architecture consists of the orchestration application layer, controller layer, and device layer. Different; layers are connected through open interfaces. From the perspective of the controller layer, SBls oriented to the device; layer and NBIs oriented to the orchestration application layer are distinguished. OpenFlow is one of SBI protocols.; Orchestration application layer Service; collaboration; :; NBI; :; Controller layer eelvice); —_— orchestration; pee NN SBI; ~ “ ; - Data; Device layer; er Ky & & © J forwarding; Page17 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.19] Labels: Huawei SDN Network Architecture; e Huawei SDN network architecture supports various SBIs and NBIs, including; OpenFlow, OVSDB, NETCONF, PCEP, RESTful, SNMP, BGP, JSON-RPC, and RESTCONF interfaces.; Network Cloud Wa ° . <>; Applications ® petonn Ged EMS Orchestration ae Apps; A$ Open NEI ARAN; < iMast; es iMaster NCE; ——_—$——_$— ANA m ODen SB —_oimo rr; PCEP NETCONF OpenFlow BGP-LS OVSDB SNMP BGP Json-RPC Telemet; Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface Interface ry; \7aP aeea Switch GA cee =§EEES Router «= SB peuey VNF; Page18 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.20] Labels: Huawei SDN Solution - Integrating; Ga) Management, Control, and Analysis to Build an Intent-; Driven Network; layer platform portal app app; Network of iMaster NCE; management; ayer Manager Controller Analyzer; AP AP; ell, a DC Fabric mie Bell,; vampus a= ope | Es S cPpeE. 4 eames; YK~ — : DC Fabric La; = —om—& —, : = ERX; Eat eS Sp-WAN =s wy Os; CPE ne > Gs SS CPE Branch; Page 19 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.21] Labels: e Huawei iMaster NCE is the industry intelligent network automation platform that integrates; management, control, analysis, and Al capabilities.; SDN-based automatic service Unified data base Full lifecycle management; configuration/deployment Detection, location, and Simulation verification and; Al-based intelligent troubleshooting monitoring optimization; analysis, prediction, and; troubl ti i i; Automation + Intelligence Manager + Controller + Analyzer Planning * onstruction *; Maintenance + Optimization; / < all d; 2 ( 3 ( 4); Autonomous Driving; NMS Controller Analyzer Network System; eG oh coon Sinsight = ef iMasterNce; S)a\0 Network ~_) CONTROLLER we 'Nsig; Page 20 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.22] Labels: iMaster NCE Application; DC ——_—iMaster NCE-Fabric *; ~Talalels le Finl| Frterprise ——imaster NCE-Campus *; | mm me campus; ao ee Ci ~—s« SD-WAN _siMaster NCE-WAN; ————— © IP WAN iMaster NCE-IP; @- WAN.; eo IM aster NCE é3 transmission Master NCE-T; * jMaster NCE-Fabric and iMaster NCE-; Campus are introduced in this document.; Page 21 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.23] Labels: > x F Enterprise; ) Campus; e Based on iMaster NCE-Fabric, DCNs provide full-lifecycle services from planning, construction, O&M, to optimization.; Service Intent/Strategy ; ;; Integrated planning and construction:; Simplification elements ° The planning tool interconnects with iMaster NCE-Fabric to implement; integrated planning and construction.; e iMaster NCE Zero Touch Provisioning (ZTP); Analyzer; lill a; Simplified deployment; * Service intent self-understanding and conversion; Al ¢ Network change simulation and evaluation, eliminating human errors; Controller Manager; Intelligent O&M:; ¢ Rapid fault detection and location based on knowledge graph and expert; CLCIrEs [saaaa re experience; Pease ti] [Gass2 =} Telemetry & ERSPAN * Fast fault rectification based on expert experiences and simulation analysis; [=sss= | [a=saas |; coos faaaem}) NETCONF & SNMP; ‘i = Real-time optimization:; ¢ Al-Fabric-oriented local traffic inference and online model training and; - — — Ss Fis Fis S * User behavior prediction and resource optimization suggestions; VM VM VM ay ay rg &; Page 22 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.24] Labels: Enterprise; Network administrator ZTP deployment process:; 1) | 1. The network administrator clicks the icon on iMaster NCE to start; the ZTP task.; @- 2. Adevice automatically obtains an IP address to access iMaster; ! ex iMasterNcE @ ! 4; I NCE.; Me a a ee ee ee ee a; 3. iMaster NCE determines the device role (spine or leaf node),; (2) © 4) delivers configurations such as the management IP address, SNMP; en Se configuration, and NETCONF configuration to online devices, and; . NY “OY manages the devices through the management IP address.; Spine zeK cee !; 4. iMaster NCE globally delivers interconnection configurations as well; as OSPF or BGP configurations.; 5. The device goes online successfully, and the administrator views; =~ — — — network-wide information on iMaster NCE.; i Leaf | SS | SIS] [S; Note: The DC uses the spine-leaf architecture.; Page 23 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.25] Labels: > x F Enterprise; Campus; Network Intent Self-understanding and Fast; Service Deployment; Network design Configuration delivery : Service verification; 2 to 3 days : 10 minutes : 1 to 2 days; iMaster NCE-Fabric; Fo paeeeceeenneel Verification result analysis; | Intent conversion ») Network design | >! Simulation verification >! Network configuration; a ar; Work order :; i Built-in model:; Intent model v ACL deployment 40 minutes; Vv Network provisioning; Huawei iMaster NCE-Fabric supports automatic and fast deployment of virtualization, cloud; computing, and container networks.; Page 24 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.26] Labels: > « 4 Enterprise; —@) Network Ch Simulati d Ch ~; changed :; sufficiency; Live network; configuration Access; connectivit; Live network topology y; information; : Network Formal verification Impact SUL original; modeling algorithm services; information; Data collection/upload Modeling and Computing Verification result; ¢ Establish physical, logical, and ¢ Check whether resources on the live network; application network models. are sufficient and whether the network is; ¢ Use the formal verification algorithm connected.; for computing. ¢« Analyze and display the impact of changes; on original services.; Page 25 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.27] Labels: > « J Enterprise; Campus; L; Al-powered Intelligent O&M for DCNs; Collection Analysis Decision; E =; Intelligent analysis engine; _ Knowledge cr ae Geers >; Huawei's 30+ years inference engine Cee; of O&M IS-IS SK; expert experience -. \ Ve ae Manual; — rectification; ») » Exception; Continuous learning » eere lett »» Intent-based; and training Root cause loop closing; pane en real site Knowledge Knowledge Knowledge Wf Knowledge analysis; Risk prediction; a Recommended; ea DC holographic data ¢ Port isolation; wee Service flow Patalceanmn Al exception Network object ¢ Configuration rollback; data/Telemetry data g identification modeling ° Capacity expansion; recommendation; Page 26 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.28] Labels: Enterpri; ;; Huawei CloudCampus Autonomous Driving; &) Network Solution; Fast network deployment, improving deployment efficiency by 600%; Analyzer One-stop management; platform « Device plug-and-play: simplified device deployment, scenario navigation, and; template-based configuration; Manager Controller ae ; ;; ¢ Simplified network deployment: Network resource pooling, multi-purpose; network, and automatic service provisioning; =o >= »; a Fast service provisioning, improving user experience by 100%; ef, iMaster NCE; « Free mobility: GUl-based policy configuration, allowing users to access the; =TCONE/VAN network anytime and anywhere without changing the roaming permission and; Large- or medium- Small- or medium- USED SxPerence; sized campus Campus sized campus * Intelligent terminal identification: Anti-spoofing for terminal access, with an; . o- intelligent terminal identification accuracy of over 95%; A, B, & & eRe ¢ Intelligent HQo0S: Application-based scheduling and shaping, and refined; _AINtonoffice pirposes y, bandwidth management, ensuring service experience of key users; _ vt WAN/; rate aI cs ane , r\ r\ Fast intelligent O&M, improving network performance by over 50%; VN for R&D; ey (y) « Real-time experience visualization: Telemetry-based network experience; visualization at each moment, for each user, and in each area; ~o., ~o~, ¢ Precise fault analysis: Proactively identifying 85% of typical network issues and; VN for office providing suggestions, and comparing and analyzing real-time data to predict; services « Access control policy faults; -_ O-, ¢ Bandwidth « Intelligent network optimization: Predictive optimization of wireless networks; VN for R&D © Priorit based on historical data, improving network-wide performance by over 50%; | services \ lority (Source: Tolly Certification); Page27 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.29] Labels: .; Device Plug-and-Play; : Deployment Through the Registration; Deployment by Scanning Bar Codes DHCP-based Deployment ploy Query Center g; ci i {iMasternce ©; © e< iMaster NCE @ ef iMaster NcE @ es iMaster NCE «*; ra Registration; ' A F im - \ query center; ; ' : 7 & , : \; I \ 2|=|5 I; ‘0 '@ 'O | @ ‘0 |; I 1; /; A " ' DHCP server ' 1 I; \ / \ : Vv i] /; Vv i \ & ra i or i @; ») \ ‘ I 7” ® /; 2 | OU} => ra 24 ($Y) = (>); ($9) —k==4q 1G) 1b) ee oe “A; 4. Pre-confiquration 1. Pre-configuration; 1. Pre-configuration omigura’ , ; 2. Information synchronization; ; 2. Obtaining registration information through the . _ ;; 2. Deployment by scanning bar codes DHCP server 3. Obtaining registration information through the; 3. Automatic device registration and login , , ; registration query center; ; ; 3. Automatic device registration and login ; .; ; ; ;; 4. Automatic configuration delivery ; ; 4. Automatic device registration and login; = SulSiiatesseniigubalish GeIUery 5. Automatic configuration delivery; Page 28 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.30] Labels: e Free mobility: Enables users to have consistent network rights and security policies regardless of their; locations and IP addresses.; Seemiremaus Secnny amaun Security group 4) Use security groups. A security group is; 2) for sales users 2) for R&D users 2) le SEINE a group of Users for which the same; FESOUICES security policy is used.; Puig ih Pane} EnpenEnsS Palle? control policies and user experience policies; a ee and deliver the policies to network devices.; eliver_security policies; VV @) A security group is authorized to a user after; the user passes access authentication.; Campus; network A) After user traffic enters a network, network; y a 4x ~*~) devices enforce policies based on the source; : and destination security groups of the traffic.; Access authentication Accessauthentication Access authentication; 2) UserA 2) User B 2) User C; Page 29 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.31] Labels: .; Wired and Wireless Convergence; WLAN Construction Mode 1: Standalone AC WLAN Construction Mode 2: AC Card; ¢ This mode poses a wireless; traffic bottleneck and; increases faulty nodes. |AC Card|; * Wired and wireless * AnAC card is installed on a; * Wired and wireless * Hardware-level convergence.; authentication points are; Ci cy separated. Ci cy; Wired and wireless authentication point separation, distributed policy control, separation of control and data traffic forwarding, and troubleshooting and; management difficulties.; Wired and Wireless Convergence (Native AC); : The switch integrates the AC function, eliminating wireless traffic forwarding bottlenecks and reducing fault; nodes. Wired and wireless devices are centrally managed.; ¢ Unified management and converged forwarding of wired and wireless services; * Converged management for wired and wireless users and gateway convergence; * Converged authentication points for wired and wireless access; Ch cq ¢ Unified wired and wireless policy execution; Page 30 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.32] Labels: .; campus; Intelligent Terminal Identification,; . Crs; Requirements (GN of = coos; and Challenges ( fm) = —— —— Huawei supports identification of; . . iMaster NCE J 1000+ office or loT terminals.; A university |; . Built-in terminal; 50+ types of smart terminals (sss. 7) 7; Terminal information is | ee; collected by IT; departments of colleges: >> — —_—__—_— — —; MAC address collection is Cwi-Fi_) Gesee 5) Gi Gass* 5) Gi Gess* 5); difficult and error-prone.; An enterprise Qo Nea >> ALD; EEG —; 100+ authentication faults; reported per day Terminal-type-based Terminal-type-based Terminal-type-based; Hf eviifieuliiedowatc Automatic authentication Automatic authorization Spoofing detection; fin Printer Camera IP phone and PC; saves Ree NS MAC address authentication, withou Is automatically added to the Report a terminal spoofing alarm.; entering any MAC address video surveillance group.; Is configured as the VIP user.; Page 31 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.33] Labels: .; campus; HQoS: User- and Application-based QoS Policy; User- and application-based QoS policies ensure experience of high-priority users and applications; Requirements and #; eg; Challenges 0 |; Traditional QoS iMaster NCE 1. Define VIP users and; policies are invalid casas i) spplication prities; for video services. ae; Is 3 ] 2. Schedule users and; application queues based on; (Example) Building >> e A Gs, ico:; Wireless vid 0 servic ve % 3. Support native AC or; IISIESS VIGEO SEIWICES | independent AC deployment.; of common users; increase, occupying a — -; large number of network =; resources and causing Cwi-Fi_) 47; network congestion.; aS) isers,; users Camera Video users; surveillance Mobile phone and tablet; Page 32 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.34] Labels: As-ls: Device-Centered Network Management To-Be: User Experience-Centered Al-Powered Intelligent O&M; j Intelligent network analyzer; e \iMaster NCE telligent network analyze; 7 NMS ) Campusinsight  * Visualized user experience; Traditional, Topology management management; NMS © Performance * User journey playback; management Telemetry - Potential fault identification; SNMP + Alarm management Second-level network ° Root cause identification .; Minute-level network » Configuration data collection ¢ Predictive network optimization; data collection management; =; _ woke:; WY Ed Eg; Experience visualization: Telemetry-based second-level data collection, visualized; experience of each user and each application in real time; * Device-centric O&M method: User experience cannot be Minute-level potential fault identification and root cause location; detected. « Identify potential faults based on dynamic baselines and big data correlation; . tri analysis.; neers responses: Potential faulls cannot be « Accurately locate root causes of faults through KPI association analysis and protocol; , . . . tracing.; Rely Of Brolsssiahal Ehigineeks!lo locate faults Onsite. Predictive network optimization: Al is used to intelligently analyze the AP load; trend and implement predictive optimization on the wireless network.; The efficiency is improved by using algorithms. With scenario-based continuous learning and expert experience, intelligent O&M frees O&M; personnel from complex alarms and noises, making O&M more automated and intelligent.; Page 33 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.35] Labels: =; L L L Ld; Al-Powered Intelligent Radio Calibration; Traditional radio calibration . =»; , Tested and verified b ‘ ); FAO RASKAYE Al-powered authoritative organizations; expected results intelligent radio Tolly; Phase 1: Manual Calibration calibration Average downlink rate per terminal:; Based on engineers’ experience, the of °; calibration is time-consuming and % IM aster NCE 58% 198 Mbit/s; error-prone, and the calibration result - 4hr ars 425 Mbit/s; is unstable. PN 0) Dd; Radio calibration Real-time and historical; AN simulation data collection ——.; — >> Before radio After Al-powered; calibration smart radio; = LE Smart radio —~ calibration; Calibration we calibration and Counter; Phase 2: Automatic Calibration ~~ closed-loop Average Wi-Fi channel interference; Calibration based on real-time radio; interference does not consider device —— = 4, 55%; load changes, and the calibration iInglowset penormance 49%; result cannot be ensured. 5 5 7 Y Number of users ‘Ny 2.8%; Fe 38 z o; $3 5° g roy; ao os sz oO; ES 3 5 ——; 8 to) : 8 Channel/Frequency ha Before radio After Al-powered; bandwidth/Power calibration smart radio; nn | calibration; Page 34 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.36] Labels: ) Contents; 1. SDN Overview; 2. NFV Overview; Page 35 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.37] Labels: NFV Background: Thinking from IT Industry; Transformation; e The IT industry transformation brings thinking on network architecture and device architecture in the; network industry. The network architecture layer involves the SDN controller and the device architecture; layer involves the device deployment mode.; IT Industry Transformation; ¢ Inrecent years, IT technologies such as virtualization and; ; . gs Network?; cloud computing have been booming, and applications; deployed on hardware have been gradually migrated to; the cloud. Applications are deployed on private; clouds, public clouds, or hybrid clouds as software.; ¢ Thinking about the network industry: Can network; Hele wee applications be deployed in a software-based manner?; Os Os ¢ Inthe context, Network Functions Virtualization (NFV); App; ' is introduced.; Virtualization/ VM VM; Os Cloudification »; Page 36 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.38] Labels: Origin of NFV; e In October 2012, 13 top carriers (including AT&T, Verizon, VDF, DT, T-Mobile, BT, and Telefonica) released; the first version of NFV White Paper at the SDN and OpenFlow World Congress. In addition, the Industry; Specification Group (ISG) was founded to promote the definition of network virtualization requirements and; the formulation of the system architecture.; ¢ In 2013, the ETSI NFV ISG conducted the first phase of research and completed the formulation of related; standards. The ETSI NFV ISG defined NFV requirements and architecture and sorts out the; standardization processes of different interfaces.; World Class Standards; Page 37 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.39] Labels: e NFV aims to address issues such as complex deployment and O&M and service innovation; difficulties due to large numbers of telecom network hardware devices. NFV brings the following; benefits to carriers while reconstructing telecom networks:; 2 Shortened service rollout time; «= Reduced network construction cost; 2 Improved network O&M efficiency; 2 Open ecosystem; Page 38 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.40] Labels: L : Ld Ld L; Key NFV Technologies: Virtualization; e Virtualization is the foundation of NFV, and cloudification is the key.; e On traditional telecom networks, each NE is implemented by dedicated hardware, resulting in high costs and difficult; O&M. Virtualization features partition, isolation, encapsulation, and independence from hardware, which can meet NFV; requirements. Carriers use virtualization to run software-based NEs on universal infrastructures.; Partition Isolation; Waa> | Bp |; Multiple VMs can concurrently run on VMs that run on the same server are; a single physical server. isolated from each other.; Encapsulation Hardware independence; = kek “>; = BS; All data of a VM is saved in files. A VM VMs can run on any servers without any; can be moved and replicated by moving modifications.; and replicating the files.; Page 39 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.41] Labels: Introduction to the NFV Architecture; e The NFV architecture includes the network functions virtualization infrastructure (NFVI), a virtualized network function; (VNF), and management and orchestration (MANO). In addition, the NFV architecture needs to support the existing; business support system (BSS) or operations support system (OSS).; OSS/BSS: is an existing operation/O&M support; system.; uses cloud resources to construct software NEs. __ Provides functions; such as service; orchestration, service; management, and; . ; resource management.; provides cloud-based resource pools.; Page 40 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.42] Labels: ¢ ETSI defines the standard NFV architecture, which consists of the NFVI, VNF, and MANO. The NFVI includes the; universal hardware layer and virtualization layer. The VNF is implemented using software, and the MANO implements; management and orchestration of an NFV architecture. NEV Management and Orchestration; MANO; Os-Ma; — OSS/BSS —_——_ NFV; | Orchestrator; | au EM2 EMS Ve-Vnfm Service, VNF, and; VNF Infrastructure; | VNF 1 VNF 2 VNF 3 Manager(s) Description; | NFVI Vi-Vnfm; | Virtualization Layer; | Virtual Virtual Virtual Nf-Vi Virtualized Or-Vi; | Computing Storage Network ——————___ Infrastructure ~; : if Vi-Ha Manager(s); | Hardware; Computing Storage Network; eo—e Execution reference point Other reference point —— Main NFV reference points; Page 41 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.43] Labels: e Main functional modules defined in the standard NFV architecture:; OSS or Management system for a service provider. It is not a functional component in the NFV architecture, but the MANO must; BSS provide an interface for interoperation with the OSS or BSS.; MANO NFV management and orchestration. The MANO includes the VIM, VNFM, and NFVO, and provides unified management and; orchestration for VNFs and the NFVI.; ¢ VIM: NFVI management module that runs on an infrastructure site. The VIM provides functions such as resource; discovery, virtual resource management and allocation, and fault handling.; ¢ VNFM«: It controls the VNF lifecycle (including instantiation, configuration, and shutdown).; ¢ NFVO: It orchestrates and manages all the software resources and network services on an NFV network.; VNF VNEs refer to VMs as well as service NEs and network function software deployed on the VMs.; NFVI NFV infrastructure, including required hardware and software. The NF VI provides a running environment for VNFs.; ¢ Hardware layer: includes hardware devices that provide compute, network, and storage resources.; ¢ Virtualization layer: abstracts hardware resources to form virtual resources, such as virtual compute, storage, and; network resources. The virtualization function is implemented by Hypervisor!"),; Page 42 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.44] Labels: NFV Architecture Interfaces; e Main interfaces of the standard NFV architecture:; Vi-Ha Is used between the virtualization layer and hardware layer. The virtualization layer meets basic hardware compatibility; requirements.; Vn-Nf Is used between a VM and the NF VI. It ensures that VMs can be deployed on the NFVI to meet performance, reliability, and; o- scalability requirements. The NFVI meets VMs' OS compatibility requirements.; Is used between the virtualization layer management software and NF VI. It provides management of virtual computing, storage,; Nf-Vi and network systems of NF VI, virtual infrastructure configuration and connections, as well as system usage, performance; monitoring, and fault management.; Ve-Vnfm Is used between the VNFM and a VNF, implementing VNF lifecycle management, VNF configuration, VNF performance, and fault; management.; OS-Ma Manages lifecycles of network services and VNFs.; WiAfatn Is used for interaction between the service application management system or service orchestration system and virtualization layer; management software.; Sends configuration information to the VNFM, configures the VNFM, and connects the orchestrator and VNFM. It exchanges; Or-Vnfm information with the NFVI resources allocated to VNFs and information between VNFs.; Or-Vi Is used to send resource reservation and resource allocation requests required by the orchestrator and exchange virtual hardware; resource configurations and status information.; Page 43 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.45] Labels: a | |_|; Huawei's NFV Solution; e In the Huawei NFV architecture, functions of the virtualization layer and VIM are implemented by the HUAWEI CLOUD; Stack NFVI platform. HUAWEI CLOUD Stack can virtualize compute, storage, and network resources and centrally; manage, monitor, and optimize physical virtualization resources.; e Huawei provides cloud-based solutions for carriers' wireless networks, bearer networks, transport networks, access; networks, and core networks.; VNF MANO; Cloud CloudOpera; CloudBB DSL/OLT CloudEdge CloudCore 5G Core Nevo; VNFM; NFVI; HUAWEI CLOUD Stack; FusionSphere; FusionCompute FusionStorage FusionNetwork OpenStack + OM; Hardware; Computing Storage Network; Page 44 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)
[Figura da Pag.46] Labels: More Information; e For more information about OpenFlow, visit https:/Avww.opennetworking.org/ .; e For more information about Huawei SDN solution, see the HCIP course.; Page 45 Copyright © 2020 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. All rights reserved.. Caption: (errore caption)